Management Discussion and Analysis
1. OVERVIEW
There were far reaching structural reforms implemented in the
Indian economy in the last seventeen months starting from
November 2016. In the process these measures have put the
economy on sound growth path. They augur well to put the
economy in high growth mode in future.
The most significant reform was introduction of Goods and
Service Tax w.e.f 1.7.2017. This single measure has integrated
the Country’s economy. Overall, the incidence of indirect tax
has come down on most of the products by this measure of
merging several indirect taxes and cess charged on the products
in different States prior to July 2017.
The streamlining of GST implementation and Tax rates took
some time. That has created upheaval in 1st half of last year.
For your Company’s business, the introduction of Realty
Estate regulation Act (RERA) has also affected growth of piping
business in Housing Sector for several months.
The several initiatives taken by Government to boost rural
income and infrastructure are now fructifying to boost business
in several segments which are catered by the Company . The
Company, therefore, envisaged a faster growth in business
from April 2018 and beyond. On the basis of the promising
future demand growth, the Company started committing larger
investments during the year than planned at beginning of the
year.
Due to hardening of Polymer Prices and lack of new capacity
build up of the PVC resin all around the world, the PVC
prices have moved to higher band. For the year 2018-19, it is
expected that the PVC price trend will remain on higher side.
In spite of increase in Crude prices, the prices of Polythene
will move to a lower level over the year as several new plants
are starting in USA based on the low feed stock cost of Shale
gas. Overall, the polymer prices will remain affordable.
The effect of Demonetization , GST and RERA looks to have
settled down to a large extent. The economy is moving to
formal sector slowly, but surely from informal sector. This
augurs well to boost the economic activity in the Country. The
initial forecast for Monsoon this year is also normal. Company,
therefore, expects business conditions to be favorable in the
year to boost the demand for it’s products.
The Company expects to put two new Greenfield plants
in production this year – one at Telangana and another at
Rajasthan. The Company’s additional construction of buildings
in existing plants and start up of production at those sites will
also go in production this year at Malanpur, Khopoli, Hosur
and Kharagpur.
The Company intends to start two new plants at Andhra
Pradesh and Assam. Land acquisition process has started. They
may partially go into production next year.
The Company’s units to make up automobile products at
Khuskhera has been put in JV with a Japanese Company. The
Company may divest it’s small holding in that Unit within 2-3
years after start up of this J.V
2. PRODUCT GROUPS
The product groups of the Company have been recast as
follows:
Group Products
Plastics
Piping
System
uPVC Pipes, Injection Moulded PVC fittings and
handmade fittings, Polypropylene Random Copolymer
pipe system, HDPE Pipe Systems, CPVC Pipes
Systems, Inspection Chambers, manholes, Toilets Bath
fittings, Roto moulded Tanks and Fittings and Solvents
Consumer
products
Furniture
Industrial
Products
Industrial Components, Material handling System and
Pallets – Roto moulded crates,pallets and garbage bins
Packaging
Products
Flexible packaging film products, Protective Packaging
Products, Cross Laminated Film products
Composite
Products
Composite LPG Cylinders,
PRODUCT GROUP WISE SHARE IN TURNOVER FOR
THE LAST TWO YEARS (% OF VALUE)
Plastics
Piping
System
55.66%
Composite
Cylinders
0.03%
Packaging
Products
20.81%
Industrial
Products
16.32%
Consumer
Products
7.18%
2017-18
Industrial Products
14.19%
Packaging
Products
22.32%
Consumer
Products
Plastics Piping 7.17%
System 56.12%
2016-17
Composite
Cylinders 0.20%
The net turnover (including other income) of the Company
for the year under review was R 4983.80.Crores (including
R 65.77 Crores by way of trading in other related products
and R 24.28 crores from sale of Premises) as against R 4469.79
crores (including R 64.78 Crores by way of trading in other
related products ) during the previous year.
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED n 41
The Company has sold 3,71,176 tons of Plastic products as
against 3,40,906 tons of Plastic products in the corresponding
period of previous year, reflecting a growth of 9% in product
turnover by volume.
The Company exported goods worth US $ 16.93 . million as
against US $ 13.50 million during the corresponding period
of the previous year.
Profit before interest, depreciation and exceptional items and
taxes during the period under review have been at R 804.31
crores as against R 769.61 crores during the previous year.
3. COMPANY’S STRENGTH AND GROWTH DRIVERS
3.1 M anufacturing Sites
The Company is operating from 25 manufacturing sites
operating in 11States and Union Territories. The Company
intends to start working on two new sites to put up plant in the
current year. It is expected that the Company will be finalizing
the location in Andhra Pradesh and Assam during this year and
start activities to put up the plants.
3.2 Distribution network
Your Company is committed to increase its reach throughout
the country. To attain this objective, the Company has added
further distributors in the past year. The distributors strength
has gone up to 3303.Nos by the end of March 2018 compared
to 2973 nos by March 2017.
Wherever the Company could not find suitable distributors
to buy and stock Company’s products for re-distribution
throughout the retail chain of that area, the Company started
selling products directly to big retailers in that area. Selectively,
the Company has strengthened it’s supply system to service
those retailers in a cost efficient manner. The Company started
this only very selectively.
Your Company’s Supreme brand is now registered with a
punch line “ Supreme – People who know plastics best.”
3.3 Growth Drivers
Your Company is strengthening its brand in Two ways. One by
increasing expenditure on Advertisement through Electronic,
Print media and participating in several Exhibitions in India
and abroad along with large meets of plumbers, Dealers,
Retailers and Architects. The Company participated in several
exhibitions in India and internationally last year. Secondly
Company is taking legal recourse to contain counterfeit
products in Plastics pipe System, XF Products and Furniture.
Company assiduously works to address this menace.
4. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
4.1 Plastics Piping Systems
The Company continues its objective to grow in Plastic Pipe
System business. The company is leader in this segment as it has
the largest portfolio of products, which is being continuously
increased, to offer more systems as required in the economy.
The introduction of GST regime in the country augured well
for growth of this business. There is likelihood of shift in
business from unorganized players to organized players over
the period. This is expected to lead to growth in the business
of your Company in forthcoming years.
The Company during the year under review registered an over
all revenue growth of 10% in Plastic Piping System made from
different plastic materials. Overall the company sold 2,56,330
Tons of Pipe System compared to 2,35,256 Tons in same period
of last year.
The growth in the business was not upto Company’s
expectation. GST introduction has put damper in Agri market
requirement in April/June. Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA)
to regulate the Housing Sector has slowed down the demand
from this sector for quite a period.
The Government at the Centre and States has put the priority
focus on Swatch Bharat Abhiyan, Sanitation and affordable
houses to all and development of 100 smart cities on all
India basis. Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA) has created a
major transformation the way housing construction for sale
was in vogue in the Country. It affected the business growth
in Housing in the year under review. The growth tempo has
now started and the Company expects good demand coming
from this segment in this year.
The Company incurred Capex of R 144 crore in this year in it’s
various plants to build more capacities and increase product
range. Majority of them has been put to use .
The Company with objective of making its footprint for
manufacturing at South Zone, for Plastic Piping Division,
has got 50 acres of land allotted at Jadcherla-District
Mahaboobnagar at Telangana. The civil construction work
has started and production of Water & Septic Tanks is likely to
start in October/December ’2018. The Company will launch
other Piping System products at this location in next one/ two
year. The Company has entered into a MOU with the State
Government of Andhra Government to put up a project at
Nellore district. Efforts are being made to acquire the required
land of approx. 40 acres to start the manufacturing there. The
Company aims to start production at the same site in second
half of 2019-2020.
The plant at Kharagpur is fully operational. The capacity
increase for PVC,HDPE & CPVC Pipes is now in place and
become operational. The Company is also exploring further
increasing the capacity of HDPE Pipe at Kharagpur plant to
cater to increased demand.
To meet the increasing demand of HDPE Pipes in North India,
the Company has taken in hand to put up the capacity in
Malanpur Unit No.3. The same will go in production in July/
September 2018 quarter.
Another Roto Moulding plant is now operational at Kharagpur.
The enhanced capacity at Gadegaon facility for Roto Moulded
Products is made operational. The capacity of Roto Moulded
Products is being planned to increase at Malanpur and Kanpur
plant.
The production of Double Wall Corrugated HDPE Pipes
has started from Gadegaon plant with BIS Certification. The
company has also started commercial production of Double
Wall Corrugated HDPE Pipes at Kharagpur. At Kharagpur the
BIS certification for Pipes up to diameter of 500 mm is received
and for balance sizes of 600 mm and 800 mm diameter is
likely to be received shortly.
42 n THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
The company introduced 195 nos. of variety of Injection
Moulded Pipe fittings during 2017-18. They all have been well
received in the market. The sale of moulded fittings increased
by 6% in volume terms during the year under review. The
Company has plan of introducing further new items during
the year as per system requirement.
The Company manufactures the cPVC Pipes at three of
its manufacturing location and cPVC Fittings at two of its
manufacturing locations. The Company has planned further
expansion of CPVC System manufacturing at it’s existing plants.
The total product portfolio in Pipe System has reached 7730
nos., thus adding 500 products to the range of various Plastic
Piping System.
The AQUAKRAFT Bath Fittings introduced by the company
is well established now including newly launched Chrome
Plated range. There were 11 new items introduced during the
year. The portfolio in Bath Fittings has reached to 100 items.
For test market, Company also imported 16 variety of Bath
Fittings to service local market. The Company plans to further
complement the range during 2018-19 by introducing large
varieties of products in Bath fittings.
The Company’s business to Export market during the year saw
a growth of 48% in US $ terms. The company is continuously
trying to boost its export business of Piping Systems.
The Division’s Value Added Products sale was 31.76%. The
company has also added further 68 direct business Channel
partners during the year taking the total to 984 Nos.. The
Company continues to expand its reach by appointing
Distributors in areas where there is a gap. The company has
also started directly servicing retailers in selected markets.
The Company has now multiple Knowledge Centres across
the country to facilitate the services locally. At Gadegaon for
the customers of Western India, at Kochi for the customers of
Southern India, at Malanpur for customers of Northern India
and at Kharagpur for customers of Eastern India.
Although Company’s CPVC Fire Sprinkler System is approved
by Bureau of Indian Standard (BIS) and is also Underwriters
Laboratories (UL) listed, still the Company needs product
approval to install in Residential /Commercial Buildings.
There is no single authority to approve the product and every
State Government has their own rules and regulations to be
followed in their States. Certain states got Central Authority
called “Director Fire Services” and the approval is acceptable
to all the Fire Officers and Fire stations within their States.
But in certain States the Company has to seek approval from
every Chief Fire Officer of a city which has status of Municipal
Corporation. Seeking approval is a time consuming process.
Thus the growth in this segment will be slow though it is
internationally proven a better system than metal Fire Sprinkler
System for Horizontal Application.
The BIS has not yet published the standard for CPVC Fire
Sprinkler Fittings and also many amendments to IS- 15105,
which is a standard for design and installation of Fire Sprinkler
System. Although National Building Code 2016 has been
published the implementation part has still not gathered pace.
As a result the awareness about mandatory installation of CPVC
Fire Sprinkler System in High-rise Residential Apartments as
well as Commercial buildings is not catching the momentum.
The Company is putting lot of efforts in creating awareness
about it’s products by meeting various Developers, Consultants
and Installers in all the major Metropolitan and Tier-I cities. As
a result of these efforts the Company could install this system
at Mumbai, Pune and Goa locations for many upcoming Highrise
Buildings. These installations will work as a showcase to
present it to future buyers, consultants and installers.
The installers who did the mock-up installations are truly
satisfied. They see tremendous benefit because of ease and
speed of installation while using this product. They have
confirmed that the speed of installation is four times faster
than the earlier metal installations and the skill requirement
is less as no welding or threading operations are involved.
The Company has developed moulds for fast running fittings
and the samples are already under testing with Underwriters
Laboratories (UL). This will enhance Company’s efficiency in
delivering the products to the end users with speed.
The Company has started participating in various “Fire and
Safety” Exhibitions in India as well as abroad as part of
promotional activities. This is helping in creating awareness to
‘Supreme Flameguard’ Brand . The Company is getting good
response from Indian as well as Overseas buyers.
Apart from installation in India the Company has supplied it’s
products to a hotel project in Sri Lanka and to a renowned
distributor in Philippines.
The Company expects that most of the regulatory approvals
will be over and indigenous development of products should
be complete during the current Calendar year. The business
may catch momentum from the second half of the current
financial year.
To support environment concern the Company is gearing up
to meet with National Green Tribunal and court directive of
phasing out Lead stabilizers from manufacturing of different
types of u PVC Pipes. The Company is planning a phased
out schedule for different variety of PVC Pipes having Lead
stabilizers to produce with Lead free stabilizers.
4.2 Consumer Products
4.2.1 FURNITURE
The business during the year had a good growth. The company
grew by 11 % on value terms and 8 % on volume terms where
as the overall Plastic Furniture Industry grew by only 4 % on
value terms. The company faced initial hiccups in business with
GST regime. Sales in First Quarter were extremely sluggish due
to introduction of GST and reduction in pipeline inventory
with trade channels. Further, the GST rate which was kept at
28 % in the beginning had an adverse effect on the business.
However, reduction in GST rate from 28 % to 18 % gave boost
to the business and the growth in second half of 2017-18 was
a healthy 16% on value terms. The company believes that with
reduction in GST rate & effective compliance, the share of
organized players should increase in overall plastic furniture
business over the period.
The company currently manufactures Injection Moulded
Furniture & Blow Moulded Furniture. It has 5 units
manufacturing Injection Moulded Furniture across the country
at Puducherry (UT), Durgapur (West Bengal), Derabassi
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED n 43
(Punjab), Gadegaon (Maharashtra) & Guwahati (Assam) to
cater effectively different regions of the country. The company
has also started manufacturing Blow Moulded Tables at its
Kharagpur (West Bengal) plant. The company is putting up a
Green Field Plant at Jadcherla ( Telangana ) for manufacture
of Injection Moulded Furniture for increasing its market share
in Southern India. The company believes the new plant will
also be a good feeder unit for all other parts of the country
due to its central location and good connectivity. The plant
is likely to go in production by third quarter of this year and
contribute to growth in last two quarters.
The growth in company’s business is primarily attributed to
its continuing focus on increasing its distribution set up and
delivering high quality product & service to its customers. The
company’s furniture is currently available to its customers
through nationwide network of around 11,000 retailers .The
company has established itself as a premium brand amongst
its trade channel and customers due to its continuous focus
on Quality, innovation and wide range of products. During the
year, the company increased its strength of channel partners
from 814 Nos. to 900 Nos. and continues to increase its
presence in the unrepresented areas.
The company’s new product line of Blow Moulded Tables
has been well received by customers and is considered as top
class in Quality. At present, the company is offering Tables in
8 Sizes and will be adding 4 more sizes by end of September
2018. The company also plans to develop more products to
cater different market segments.
The product line requires intensive marketing combined
with education about its benefits vis a vis other conventional
wooden tables and the company hopes to grow in 2018-19
in this segment primarily from domestic market. The export
potential for this product line is big. The Company’s quality
of product is far superior comparable to competitive products
in the world market. Once the range becomes large and get
well established in domestic market , then the Company aims
to launch it’s product in international markets.
The company introduced 7 new furniture models during
the year. The Fusion Series of Cupboards found very high
acceptance amongst the customers due to its unique aesthetic
deign. The company also launched its two seater rattan finish
Love Seat Sofa which made an ideal combination with its fast
selling model Cambridge Chair and Vegas Center Table . The
complete set has been well appreciated in domestic as well as
International Market. All the new models introduced during
the year were well appreciated and the company hopes to get
good growth from its new introductions.
The company continues to focus on developing its export
market and has found good acceptance by various customers.
The company has now started exports to Twelve countries and
hopes to grow substantially from this segment. The Company
participates in several exhibitions to promote it’s quality
products.
4.3 Industrial Products
4.3.1 Industrial Components
The year started against the backdrop of improved business
sentiments resulting from gradual economic recovery because
of various reforms initiated by the government. Demand revival
took momentum in various segments including Automotive
and Consumer Durable sector in which the Division has major
business portfolio. At the beginning of the year, the Division
had projected growth of 20% and 12% in Value and Volume
terms in both the sectors put together. The initial negative effect
of major economic Structural Reforms like Demonetization
and GST having faded, demand progressively picked up
in all segments of Automobile sector like 2 Wheeler/3
Wheeler, Cars/SUVs and Commercial Vehicles and in White
Goods like washing Machines, Refrigerators and other home
appliances. The good monsoon also helped demand boost in
Automotive and Appliances. Division grew by 31% and 18%
respectively in Volume and Value terms over previous year.
With microeconomic parameters encouraging, GST getting
stabilized and improved confidence in economy, the Company
expects further expansion in demand which should pave the
way for further growth during the current year.
Noida Plant revenue had improved significantly during the
year under review and grew by 46% . Noida plant improved
its customer base to have sizable spread in non-Appliances to
counter seasonal demand volatility. Hence plant could achieve
fairly uniform production with low level of volatility. Demand
for AC segment improved considerably showing healthy
growth. Company expects AC segment to grow significantly
and concentrating on new customer development in this
product line. In order to meet improved demand of one of
Company’s major AC customer and reduce logistics cost for
the customer, company decided to put up a new plant at
Ghiloth, Rajasthan and started the project work in full swing.
The project is already at last leg of completion and expected
to go in production in April-June, quarter. With the continued
efforts in developing new Business Mix, company expects
steady growth at Noida plant in future. Lot of steps were taken
to carry out layout changes and many other improvements to
make the plant future ready as the plant is three decade old
and was requiring revamp. During the year, the Plant cleared
Initial Assessment and Final Audit for TPM Excellence by JIPM
(Japan Institute of Plant Maintenance). The Plant received the
prestigious Award of TPM Excellence during the year. The
movement will be accelerated further to next level during the
years to come.
Auto Business in the western India which started showing
recovery during FY 16-17 accelerated further during FY17-18
improving revenue of Talegaon Plant resulting in robust growth
of 58% in sales revenue. The business of some automotive
models, which were acquired during previous years from the
major customer Tata Motors, started showing demand pick
up. Supply of Cockpit Assembly which started for the LCV/
MCV Model ‘Ultra’ of Tata Motors; during previous year,
ramped up considerably and is expected to improve further
during coming years. The New 2 Wheeler model SR 150
and the existing Vespa together registered better demand
improving revenue of Talegaon plant. Plant Capacity Utilization
improved significantly. Company is aggressively focusing to
improve business at Talegaon by strengthening its Business
Development cell.
Khushkhera Plant sales revived and grew by 8%. Supplies
have been successfully established for one of the prestigious
44 n THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
SUV model of Honda Car, WR-V. Development is on for
several other models for Maruti Suzuki and Honda. Company
has been continuously exploring good business opportunities
from Maruti, Honda and other tier one customers in many of
their new models. However, it is felt that Company needs to
strengthen its capabilities and reorganize not only a component
supplier but also to become complete source of supply right
from designing, development to supply of products which can
be done effectively by the Company having such technical
strength and capabilities.
Keeping the same in mind,Company has entered into a
joint venture with Kumi Kasei Co., Ltd (Kumi), a company
incorporated in Japan, to set up a new entity by the name of
Kumi Supreme India Private Limited (JVC). Kumi is a major
supplier to Honda for many interior parts for automotive
application all over the world. They have been Company’s
Technology Partner for the last six years for Company’s
automotive supplies to Honda in India. The JVC would take
over Khushkhera plant operations as a going concern on a
slump sale basis. Transaction is likely to be completed by
30th June, 2018. This Joint Venture may further improve
technological competence of the Auto Comp Business and
will help in strengthening Company’s relationship with all it’s
customers.
Business opportunities are encouraging for Chennai Plant.
Plant registered growth of only 4% as company couldn’t grab
the business opportunities due to capacity constraints in the
plant. Currently plant is running at its optimum capacity.
Company is now in the process of acquiring land adjacent to
its existing facility, which will be used for expanding the plant.
Company plans to expand and increase the plant capacity to
facilitate acquiring future opportunities. Bosch has set up its
huge manufacturing facility in India, at Chennai and would be
launching various other Home Appliance products during next
few years. Company expects good growth with this customer
in years to come. The prospects in automotive sector for this
unit are looking bright and it is expected to form a significant
portion of plant revenue. Company has planned to realign its
Customer-Mix for more productive capacity utilization.
Pondy Plant achieved a healthy volume growth of about 40%
driven by good demand for Whirlpool Washing Machines.
Value growth was close to 50% mainly due to product-Mix.
The drive is taken to improve the operations further to
enhance productivity, Quality, Cost Optimization, and Skills
up gradation to meet increased demand from customers and
stay competitive. The Company expects business to grow
with it’s major customer during the years to come. Realizing
the opportunities company has planned both Capacity and
Capability enhancement at Pondy by taking series of actions.
Company has initiated some layout changes for optimum
utilization of space, improving safety standards and augmenting
plant capacity.
Durgapur Plant also achieved healthy value and volume
growth of 28% and 15% respectively due to maturation of the
new businesses acquired during previous year and the current
year. Company had added a customer in TIER 1 category
to Auto Major TML during previous year. The sale to this
Company significantly grew and is a major contributor to the
growth of the plant. Company expects better growth during
this year from all the customers of this plant. Company has
planned major layout changes in the plant to improve overall
operations. Also, company has planned to initiate drive to
work for TPM Excellence.
Company has taken drive to rationalize and reorient the
machine capacities at its various locations to align it with the
changed Product- Mix. While doing so, the new machines
and equipment being added are equipped with the latest
Technology, Energy efficient, designed for Good repeatability
for better quality and improved productivity. Wherever feasible
and cost-effective, Automation is being considered to for
better productivity and quality. All these initiatives will ensure
enhanced Quality, Productivity, Safety, Energy conservation
and Cost optimization. It is helping us to negate the impact
of inflation due to various manufacturing cost increases and
cost reductions required to be given year on year to customers
to remain competitive. The various such initiatives of the
Company would support Environment and help Go Green.
Continuous focus on employee engagement initiatives is
helping company to enhance its Human Capital. Company is
envisaging certain fast track initiatives under HR Umbrella to
enhance skilling of its human resource to improve its capability
to meet future needs of Digital Manufacturing.
Overall rating of the Company by its customers meets or
exceeds their expectations. Company is considered a highly
dependable and valuable supplier. Company received
various Awards and Recognitions from time to time from its
customers for its support in Quality, Cost, Delivery and New
product development, Overall Support, Best Practices etc. All
employees are constantly re-oriented to ensure utmost focus
on Customer Satisfaction.
The Journey towards excellence is being cultivated as a
culture and will be continuous. Efforts are being accelerated to
increase customer and product base, bring in new technology,
Automation, Effective cost management to ensure sustained
growth with profits.
4.3.2 M aterial Handling Products
The year started at the backdrop of demonetization and
commencement of the GST regime from the end of 1st quarter,
the effects of these were witnessed by the Material Handling
Division also in the first half and the business started improving
from then on.
The Crate Division has shown a volume growth of 18%.
The Company’s Crates are used in various segments which
includes Automobile, FMCG, White Goods, Engineering, Retail
sectors.
Company also provides customized solution by fabrication to
it’s valued customers. This business has shown healthy growth
of 30%.
The Company’s customers are appreciative of the quality of
the products.
Company’s Crate business has been decreasing in Dairy
and fruits and vegetables segment. This is mainly due to
abundant use of reprocessed material by many players in these
applications. Company is able to participate only where good
quality products are required.
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED n 45
Injection Moulded Pallet business has achieved volume growth
of 12%.
Company has developed some new products which should
get better response from the customers.
MHD products made by Roto Moulding has also shown good
growth of 20% over last year. Company is planning to enhance
capacity for Roto Moulded products of this Division.
Bottle crates for soft drinks did not perform well. This business
is mainly dependent on two major soft drink players.
The products for garbage handling is on the increase due to
Swatch Bharat Mission of Central Government. Company will
introduce new products in this segments.
MHD Products were made at different locations which helps
Company to serve the customers at competitive prices and
timely delivery.
Company is setting up a new complex at Jadcherla in
Telangana. Products for Material Handling Division also will
be produced at that site.
Company is hopeful of achieving better growth in this Division
in the current year.
4.4 Packaging Products
4.4.1 Packaging Films
The performance films division was running at full capacity
last year as well as in the year under review. Therefore there
was no growth possible in the year under review.
Overall sale was 7454 tons in the year under review vis a vis
7596 tons in the previous year. The sales in value term dropped
from R 129.40 Crores to R 125.31 Crores . This was due to fall
in raw material prices as well as drop in selling price.
During the year under review, exports stood at 1659 tons as
against 1028 tons in corresponding period of previous year.
The company’s thrust on export resulted in robust growth of
61 % in volume. This trend will continue with addition of new
customers in several geographies.
The customers of the Company have shown confidence in the
quality of Company’s films and service.
The division’s sales have been consistent and customer base
could be maintained by virtue of quality of products & high
service standards. As the capacity of the division remains fully
utilised, the division has committed an investment of R 41
crores to expand its capacity at existing Khopoli unit.. The
same may go in production in Jan/March 2019 quarter. This
will increase the capacity by around 5000 Tons per annum.
4.4.2 Protective packaging division (PPD)
Protective packaging division (PPD) recorded 16% growth in
value & 17.5% in volume during the year under review. The
total sale was 23335 tons against 19853 tons last year
Overall packaging business was good during the year under
review. The de-growth of the business of insulation grade
cross-linked polyethylene foam has continued, as more
competitors entered the business during the year. Most of the
manufacturers are supplying substandard products against
their own declared specifications. The division has taken up
a challenge to build quality awareness among the customers
and approving authorities by several modes of communication.
This is however a long drawn process. NBR sheet plant has
commenced production in the first week of April after a delay
of over 4 months due to delayed supply of equipments. This
will enhance Company’s product offering for insulation range
of products. However competition may remain fierce in the
coming year.
Many of the civil projects are getting restarted and it is expected
that the demand will improve for the DURA range of products
in the current year.
The market response for the new ranges of products like
children education toys, sports, health sector, & interiors which
were launched last year has been encouraging. A wide range
of interlock mats are now well established in the market. The
division is also developing sport specific certified interlock
mats.
The division is now an approved vendor of Decathlon, a
leading global sports goods retailer, for yoga mats. Several
other products are in the pipeline for approval.
The acoustic range of products haven’t picked up as well as
expected, due to the limited availability of NBR bonded block
foam and some technical issues related to the other range of
products. The division is expecting a good growth of business
of this vertical during the year due to enhanced availability of
the NBR bonded block foam.
Hosur unit I & 2 will be merged alongwith the expansion at
unit 2 & is expected to go in full production by August 2018.
Unit 1 operation will then be shut down. The company would
divest the land & building of this unit thereafter.
The production capacity of Kharagpur unit will be enhanced
by 2600 MTPA during the current year by constructing a new
building and addition of Cross Linked Foam products.
The division is also doing the feasibility study for enhancing
production capacity at Malanpur.
The division has started work at the Jadcherla complex which
is being set up. Production should start in the last quarter of
the financial year 2018-19.
The division has also decided to establish more fabrication
facilities including expansion of existing ones at different
locations to capture high value added fabrication business.
The division has also started getting good demand of civil and
insulation range of products from the middle-east market.
There would be a significant growth of exports in the coming
year. Present production capacity of 28,600 tons will increase
to 38,500 TPA without considering Jadcherla and Malanpur
expansion.
Packaging
Packaging vertical grew by 20.08% in value and 21% in volume
as against last year. Enhanced productivity & improved quality
standards have been achieved by re-engineering of existing
equipment/equipments resulting in growth of business. The
R & D team is also working on developments of new variants
of polyethylene foam range of products which are application
specific.
46 n THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
The new bubble plant which was installed last year at Hosur
unit has been modified for the production of new range of
composite products which was not possible earlier in any of
our existing equipments. The Company expects good growth
in the premium range of products during the year. Business
of two stage block foam which was sluggish over the past few
years is now picking up and it is expected that the capacity
will be well utilized in the current year.
Business of EVA foam moulded products has not yet started.
Several products for the sports & health sector have been
identified & will be launched by the end of 1st quarter. Further
products would be added in the year.
Civil
Business grew by 9.18% value and 1.55% by volume in the
current year. The division has been awarded BIS certification
for its DURA HD 100 for expansion joint application. Demand
for DURA range of products is now increasing for the business
in project based business. To cater the demand, the division
is planning to expand cross-linked block foamed production
capacity at various locations. The division is also working
on development of new range of civil products which are
application oriented and a cost effective solution to the
customers.
Insulation
The growth of Insulation division was 7.29% in value & 3.51%
in volume. As informed earlier, several new competitors
entered the business simultaneously & dropped prices
inappropriately while compromising on desired quality
standards. This had severely impacted Company’s business &
profitability. However, constant efforts to sell products based
on required quality standards has started to yield results. NBR
sheet plant will expand existing portfolio of products in this
vertical.
Technology
The Technical team of the division has been working on
innovative ideas to develop new products, new applications, &
upgrading of existing processing facilities and other segments.
The Company’s innovative & light weight products have been
beneficial to industry & the society at large
The Indian Green Building Council ( IGBC ) has certified all of
Company’s insulation range of products. The division has also
received 8th Plasticon Award in the category of “Innovation in
Polymer Waste Management and Recycling Technology” on
the bonded block foam.
4.4.3 Cross Laminated Film
The Business of Cross Laminated film and products had a
de-growth during the year which witnessed slow down in
economy in the first half due to roll out of Goods & Service
Tax (GST). Several new players have also entered this business
in the country claiming to make similar products like our
Company. Combination of these two factors have affected the
volume & margins in this segment of business.
Prior to launch of GST on 1st July, 2017 there was lot of
confusion, particularly amongst the traders, regarding eligibility
of credit of duties paid on purchase of goods which remained
in stock on the date of GST implementation. Most of the
company’s dealers curtailed purchases to maintain stocks at
a very low level. This adversely impacted sale of company’s
products during the first quarter of the year which are supposed
to be the peak months for the sale of tarpaulins. In the GST
regime, the company’s main product tarpaulin was placed
initially in the highest rate bracket i.e. 28%. This made the
product costly to the end users. After lot of representations
at various forums the GST rate on tarpaulin was reduced
from 28% to 18% but in the meantime company lost sizeable
business. Though the sales picked up from September
onwards, the loss of sales during the first five months could
not be recouped.
There was small growth in the 35GSM Silpoly Liner business.
The company is promoting this product in newer applications
with positive response.
As per the prediction of India Meteorological Department
the 2018 monsoon is expected to be normal brightening
the chances of recovery in the farm sector & growth in rural
economy. This may boost the demand for Company’s products,
most of which find application in agriculture sector.
The company is hopeful of getting increased foothold in the
USA market in the coming years. The company is working on
developing specialized new applications to increase the size
of market. The company aims to bringing in new customers
in its fold in the existing markets & reaching out new markets
where at present it does not have any presence by show casing
its products in various international exhibitions.
With enhanced capacity at its disposal the company has made
Cross Line (XL) Bonded Film available in almost all thicknesses.
This product has superior properties than the normal XF Film
& enjoys patent protection. The company has now acquired
all the rights in the patents of Cross Line Bonded Film from
the technical collaborator. This will bring in lot of savings in
the royalties in the coming years as the sale of this product is
expected to grow.
In the coming year the thrust will be on developing newer
applications and entering into several international markets.
The company has developed many new fabricated products
apart from Tarpaulin. Due to its superior properties it is
getting increased acceptance in different applications. The
company has successfully introduced this product in different
applications by laminating the film with other substrate.
The technical collaborator of the company is working in
tandem with the prospective customers of Cross Plastic Film
to perfect the product in all respects. Once the product is
perfected the company will be putting up plant to manufacture
this product at its Muvala plant.
4.5 Construction Business
The company has developed Commercial Premises viz
“Supreme Chambers” with a view to monetize the land parcel
where its first own manufacturing unit was functional. The
building was completed in 2010-2011 and all permissions are
in place including Occupation Certificate.
The aforesaid commercial premises is marvelously designed
& is having many eco-friendly features, aesthetically design
green land scape area & the best of infrastructure & utilities.
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED n 47
At the beginning of the year total 63,868 sq.ft saleable area
was available for sale at the said premise. During the year
under review the company sold 12610 sq ft saleable area at
an aggregate consideration of R 24.28 Crs. New construction in
commercial space is minimal. In view of limited availability of
good office premises and improved sentiments in Commercial
space market, Company is hopeful to monetize remaining
premises of about 51,258 sq. ft. saleable area during current
year.
4.6 New Initiatives
4.6.1 Composite LPG Cylinder
Through the year gone by has not been to the expectation
but all the same now appears to be promising for the current
financial year.
There were some minor technical issues on the cylinders
supplied by the Company to Korea and Bangladesh. All those
issues have been resolved and clients have started discussions
for repeat orders.
It is encouraging to note that Bangladesh has been using
cylinders for last one year and the Company is negotiating to
supply larger quantities in the current year.
Market demands 15.6 and 20 kg. cylinders. Company
developed the cylinders and got approval from TUV, PESO
and KGS. In this, a trial lot has been shipped to Korea in 20
kg. cylinder and the Company expects to have a good volume
in these sizes since the country being a coastal region faces a
problem of rusting of steel cylinders.
The much awaited BIS Standards is complete and BIS 16646
has been published for Type IV composite cylinders. This was
necessary so that oil market companies can now take effective
steps to introduce composite cylinders in Indian market.
The feedback has been good from Company’s customers for
it’s cylinders on whatever small quantities supplied by the
Company to Private Gas Companies in Goa, Belgaum and
Bengaluru. Company hopes to see better off-take from Indian
Gas Companies in coming year.
Company has acquired 10% business interest in HPC Research
s.r.o. a start up company focusing on R & D in Composite
Cylinders in the Czech Republic which will strengthen its R &
D footprint in the field of Pressure Vessels.
5. FINANCE
A brief on borrowing levels and finance cost is given below -:
Particulars Measure F.Y.
2017-18
F.Y.
2016-17
Net borrowing
level at the end
of the year
R In crores 246.40 228.36
Average Monthly
Borrowings
R in crores 335.95 382.13
Interest &
finance charges
R In crores 21.92 30.24
Average cost of
borrowings at the
end of the year
% p. a 7.12 6.56
Particulars Measure F.Y.
2017-18
F.Y.
2016-17
Financial cost as
a % of Turnover
% 0.44 0.68
Total Debt :
Equity Ratio
0.14 0.15
During the year under review despite RBI keeping the policy
rates under control , there was increase in interest rate scenario
in India and US FED rates continue to increase ( going up from
1% to 1.75%), resulting in higher cost for borrowings under
Buyer’s credit/ Packing credit in foreign currency routes.
Now, with the abrupt discontinuance of Letter of Undertakings
(LOUs) by RBI, availment of low cost working capital credit in
foreign currency may become difficult.
Despite the challenging times, the Company managed to
reduce its overall finance cost during the year under review,
on account of (a) Prudent working capital management (b)
more reliance on low cost commercial papers and low cost
borrowings from banks, and (c) Judicious and consistent
hedging policy to mitigate the risk arising out of foreign
currency fluctuations.
Even though, LOUs are now discontinued, Company is
equipped to adopt alternative routes to continue to avail low
cost foreign currency borrowings to meet its working capital
requirements.
During the year under review, the Company has not availed any
fresh loans and it has repaid Term loan installments of R 47.44
crores. The Company has no plans to increase its borrowings
level and it is committed to become virtually debt free (except
for its working capital requirements) in the next year.
Dealers’ financing & Vendor Management.
The Dealers’ finance facilities extended by Standard Chartered
Bank is becoming popular amongst the channel partners of
the Company. More and more channel partners are trying to
get enrolled under the scheme so as to meet their working
capital requirements at competitive rates offered by the bank.
The Company is also availing extended maturity payables to
its creditors thus effectively managing its vendors.
CRISIL Rating
During the year, the Rating for Company’s Short term bank
facilities was reaffirmed at “CRISIL A1+ (re-affirmed)” by
CRISIL (which is highest rating for the Short term instruments).
The Long Term Banking Facilities was re-affirmed at “CRISIL
AA/Stable (re-affirmed)“.
According to CRISIL, the re-affirmation of the rating continues
to reflect Company’s diversified revenue profile, with multiple
end-user industries mitigating impact of slowdown in any
industry, Healthy market position across business segments,
supported by strong product development capabilities and
extensive distribution network, Robust financial risk profile,
backed by comfortable networth, low gearing and strong debt
protection metrics.
Capital Expenditure
Considering the better business growth potential going forward
the Company has increased investment plan to around R 450
48 n THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
crores in this year as compared to R 350 crores as planned in
the beginning of the year. Out of the above investment plan
of R 450 crores, the Company incurred Capital Expenditure
(Capex) of R 260 crores. The balance committed investment
will go in production in the year 2018-19.
During the current year i.e. 2018-19, the Company envisages
Capex in the range of about R 300 to 350 crores, mainly on
the following:
a) Taking effective steps to put up a new Unit at Assam.
b) Start a Greenfield Plastics Product Complex in Andhra
Pradesh by acquiring land and initiating preliminary
action.
c) Put up a plant to make Protective Packaging Product at
Jadcharla in Telangana.
d) Put up plastic pipe manufacturing at Jadcharla.
e) Increase HDPE plant capacity at Kharagpur.
f) Put additional Roto Machines and moulds at different
locations.
g) Add molulds and mouilding machines in Pipe, Furniture
and material handling division.
h) To increase capacity of Industrial components business.
i) To increase capacity of Protective Packaging Products.
j) To invest in automation.
The Company shall continue to finance its Capex programme
through internal accruals and Supplier’s Credit.
6. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The Company has adequate internal audit and control
systems. Internal auditors comprising of professional firms of
Chartered Accountants have been entrusted the job to conduct
regular internal audits at all units/ locations and report to the
management the lapses, if any. Both internal auditors and
statutory auditors independently evaluate the adequacy of
internal control system. Based on the audit observations and
suggestions, follow up, remedial measures are being taken
including review and increase in the scope of coverage, if
necessary. The Audit Committee of Directors, in its periodical
meetings, review the adequacy of internal control systems and
procedures and suggest areas of improvements.
The Company has undertaken a detailed exercise to revisit
its control systems in technical and other non-financial
areas to align them properly with Management Information
Systems (MIS) to make MIS more efficient and result oriented.
Information technology base created by the Company over
the period is providing a very useful helping hand in the
process. Needless to mention, that ensuring maintenance of
proper accounting records, safeguarding assets against loss and
misappropriation, compliance of applicable laws, rules and
regulations and providing reasonable assurance against fraud
and errors will continue to remain central point of the entire
control systems.
7. H UMAN RESOURCES
Human resource is considered as key to the future growth
strategy of the Company and looks upon to focus its efforts
to further align human resource policies, processes and
initiatives to meet its business needs. In order to focus on
keeping employees abreast of technological and technical
developments, the Company provides opportunity for training
and learning within the country and abroad. Industrial relations
at all the units and locations are cordial.
Cautionary Statement
Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis describing
the Company’s objectives, expectations or predictions may be
forward looking within the meaning of applicable securities, laws
and regulations. Actual results may differ materially from those
expressed in the statement. Important factors that would influence
the Company’s operations include cost of raw materials, tax laws,
interest and power cost and economic developments and such
other factors within the country and the international economic
and financial developments.