Management Discussion and Analysis
1. OVERVIEW
 The various initiatives taken by the Central and State 
Governments have started showing fruitful outcome in the 
year. The focus on construction of affordable houses, effective 
implementation of RERA, Swachha Bharat Mission, Amrut 
Yojana and other infrastructure building activities are enabling 
the Company to grow it’s Plastics Piping System Business.
 The Government announcement to build 100 smart cities is 
also taking shape. It has started in certain cities. It is expected 
that the whole scheme will have bigger role to play to boost 
business in the years to come.
 The initiatives taken up-to-date by the Government are 
gathering momentum. With an expected growth in the 
businesses of several verticals, the Company took steps to put 
new production units and also expand capacity in several of 
it’s existing units. All the investment plans have fructified or 
are fructifying by June 2019 within the planned investment 
and time frame.
 The Company had plans to put new units at Andhra Pradesh 
(AP) and Assam in the beginning of the year 2019. As the 
land negotiation dragged for a long period, the company has 
prioritised to put a Greenfield plant at Orissa. The effective 
actions will be taken in this year on this initiative. The plans 
to put up units at A.P and Assam will follow thereafter.
 The raw material availability was adequate and affordable. 
The PVC prices in the first ten months maintained upward 
bias. Suddenly the prices dropped in March by 12.5% in five 
week times. This resulted in steep inventory loss in the working 
of the Company for the year eroding it’s operating margin to 
some extent.
 The Company is a large convertor of PVC resin. Company 
currently expects that this lower price regime of PVC may 
continue for some time. It will broaden the Company’s 
business volume and also reduce working capital requirements.
 The prices of other Polymers have improved to some extent 
from their lowest level. The Company converts mostly 
commodity plastics where prices have tendency to remain 
volatile. However, for the current year, the Company expects 
Polymer prices to remain affordable. Availability of raw material 
is also going to remain adequate.
 The Government has committed to revisit the GST rates. It’s 
pronounced aim to reduce the number of GST rate slabs 
triggers hope that Company’s product which mostly fall in 
18% slab of GST may go down to a lower level whenever the 
slabs of GST rates are compressed.
 When the GST was introduced it was expected that informal 
sector may graduate faster to move to formal sector. However, 
pace of moving to formal sector by informal players is quite 
slow.
 The Company remains committed to boost it’s value added 
business and to increase it’s export turnover. To boost export 
business , Company participates last year in 20 international 
Exhibitions for it’s various products. This has boosted it’s export 
turnover from $ 16.93 million to $ 23.05 million. Company 
continues to work aggressively to boost it’s export business by 
intensive marketing and making investments in products which 
can generate larger growth in export business.
 In absolute quantum, the value added product turnover has 
also shown quantum jump. The turnover of such products have 
grown to R 1944 crores compared to the turnover of R 1734 
Crores in the year 2017-18.
 In most of its divisions the focus remains to grow the value 
added businesses. Several investments were made and also 
planned in the current year in this target to go on growing 
value added business turnover.
2. PRODUCT GROUPS:
 The product groups of the Company have been recast as 
follows:
Group Products
Plastics 
Piping 
System
uPVC Pipes, Injection Moulded PVC fittings and 
handmade fittings, Polypropylene Random Copolymer pipe system, HDPE Pipe Systems, CPVC Pipes 
Systems, Inspection Chambers, manholes, Toilets Bath 
fittings, Roto moulded Tanks and Fittings and Solvents, 
Industrial Piping System, DWC Pe Pipe System and 
Fire Sprinkler System
Consumer 
products
Furniture
Industrial 
Products
Industrial Components, Material handling System and 
Pallets - Roto moulded crates, pallets and garbage bins 
and Composite LPG Cylinders.
Packaging 
Products
Flexible packaging film products, Protective Packaging 
Products, Cross Laminated Film products.
PRODUCT GROUP WISE SHARE IN TURNOVER FOR 
THE LAST TWO YEARS (% OF VALUE)
Plastics 
Piping 
System 
58%
Packaging 
Products 19%
Industrial 
Products 16% 
Consumer 
Products 7%
2018-19
Industrial Products 
16.32% 
Packaging 
Products 
20.81%
Consumer 
Products 
Plastics Piping 7.18%
System 55.66%
2017-18
 The net turnover (including other income) of the Company 
for the year under review was R 5632.47 Crores (including 
R 46.36 Crores by way of trading in other related products 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED Page 37
ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19
and R 80.85 crores from sale of Premises) as against R 4986.31 
crores (including R 65.77 Crores by way of trading in other 
related products and R 24.28 crores from sale of premises ) 
during the previous year.
 The Company has sold 3,97,983 tons of Plastic products as 
against 3,71,176 tons of Plastic products in the corresponding 
period of previous year, reflecting a growth of 7% in product 
turnover by volume.
 Profit before interest, depreciation and exceptional items and 
taxes during the period under review have been at R 804.57 
crores as against R 803.04 crores during the previous year.
3. COMPANY’S STRENGTH AND GROWTH DRIVERS
3.1 Manufacturing Sites
 The Company is operating from 25 manufacturing sites 
operating across 12 States and Union Territories. During the 
year under review, Company has put up two new facilities 
at Giloth (Rajasthan) and Jadcherla (Telangana). Company 
has divested Khushkhera Unit to a newly formed Joint 
Venture Company namely Kumi Supreme India Private 
Limited. Company also shifted its existing property, plant and 
equipment of Hosur Unit I to newly expanded Hosur Unit II in 
order to achieve better synergies and cost optimization. Land 
& Building of Hosur Unit I has been divested resulting into 
gain of R 11.31crores. The Company intends to start working 
on further new sites to put up new plants and considering 
Orissa, Assam & A.P. as probable destinations to expand its 
geographical spread.
3.2 Distribution network
 Your Company is committed to increase its reach throughout 
the country. Company is continuously working on strengthening 
its distribution network. The distributors strength has gone up 
to 3778 Nos. by the end of March 2019 compared to 3303 
Nos. by March 2018.
 Company has also started selling products directly to big 
retailers in selected areas. Selectively, the Company has 
strengthened it’s supply system to service those retailers in a 
cost efficient manner. Company is also expanding its reach 
through opening more Depot wherever it is unable to rope 
in strong and resourceful channel partner.
3.3 Growth Drivers
 Your Company is strengthening its brand in multiple ways. 
Company is increasing its spend on Advertisement through 
Electronic & Print media and participating in several Exhibitions 
in India and abroad along with large meets of plumbers, 
Dealers, Retailers and Architects. Company is also taking 
legal recourse to contain counterfeit products in Plastics pipe 
System, XF Products and Furniture. Company assiduously 
works to address this menace. Further Company is opening 
more knowledge centers in various parts of the country to 
showcase its product range, guide on correct installation 
techniques and continuously upgrade the knowledge of 
architects, contractors, farmers and other fraternities of the 
society related to Company’s products.
4. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
4.1 Plastics Piping Systems
 The Company continues its objective to grow Plastic Pipe 
System business. The Company is leader in this segment 
as it has the largest portfolio of products, which is being 
continuously increased, to offer more systems as required in 
the economy.
 The Company during the year under review registered an over 
all revenue growth of 16% in Plastic Piping System made from 
different plastic materials. Overall the Company sold 2,79,748 
Tons of Pipe System compared to 2,56,330 Tons in the same 
period of last year.
 The Government at the Centre and States has put the priority 
focus on Swatch Bharat Abhiyan, Sanitation and affordable 
houses to all and development of 100 smart cities on all India 
basis. Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA) has created a major 
transformation the way housing construction for sale was in 
vogue in the Country. Many prominent Business Houses have 
made ambitious plans in this sector to grow geometrically with 
launch of their projects at multiple locations. The growth tempo 
has now started and the Company expects good demand 
coming from the segment this year onwards.
 The Company incurred Capex of R 127 crore in this year in 
it’s various plants to build more capacities and increase range. 
Majority of them has been put to use .
 The Company with objective of making its footprint for 
manufacturing at South Zone, for Plastic Piping Division, has got 
50 acres of land allotted at Jadcherla-District Mahaboobnagar 
at Telangana. The production of Water & Septic Tanks at that 
location has started. The Company will launch other Piping 
System products at this location in this year. The Company 
also intends to launch new specialty systems from Jadcherla 
plant for Piping System to cater to high end applications.
 The plant at Kharagpur is fully operational. The capacity 
increase for PVC, HDPE & CPVC Pipes is now in place and 
operational. The Company is also exploring further increasing 
the capacity of HDPE Pipe at Kharagpur plant to cater to 
increased demand. The Company has also decided to start 
manufacturing of Moulded Fittings at Kharagpur to service 
Eastern market effectively which should go in production 
during 2019-20.
 To meet the increasing demand of HDPE Pipes in North India, 
the Company has put up the capacity in Malanpur Unit No.3. 
The commercial production of it has started.
 The enhanced capacity for Roto Moulded Products is made 
operational at Kanpur & Malanpur plants. The Company 
launched Roto Moulded temporary Toilet and multi-station 
Urinal basically for construction sites, Melas and exhibitions 
during the year. Both these products are well accepted by 
the market supporting cleanliness and environment. The 
Company plans to substantially increase the business of Water 
Tanks through different market strategy of servicing directly to 
retailers from the respective factories. The actions for same 
are being initiated on all India basis for retailers appointment. 
The Company also intends to launch Premium range of Water 
Tanks with added features.
 The production of Double Wall Corrugated HDPE Pipes 
has started from Gadegaon and Kharagpur plants with BIS 
Certification. The Company is in process to educate various 
departments the benefits of putting in place a good quality 
DWC Pipes with latest technology and using virgin certified 
raw materials in terms of performance and longer life.
 The Company introduced 63 nos. of variety of Injection 
Moulded Pipe fittings during 2018-19. They all have been well 
received in the market. The sale of moulded fittings increased 
Page 38 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
by 15% in volume terms during the year under review. The 
Company has plan of introducing further new items during the 
year as per system requirement. The total product portfolio 
in Plastic Pipe System has reached 8085 nos., thus adding 
355 products to the range of various Plastic Piping System 
compared to previous year.
 The Company manufactures the cPVC Pipes at three of 
its manufacturing location and cPVC Fittings at two of its 
manufacturing locations. The Company has planned further 
expansion of cPVC Pipe manufacturing at it’s Malanpur Plant 
and plans to set up facility to make these pipes at Jadcherla 
plant. The cPVC system sales during last year grew by 28% in 
value over previous year.
 The AQUAKRAFT Bath Fittings introduced by the Company 
is well established now including newly launched Chrome 
Plated range. There were 13 new items introduced during 
the year. The portfolio in Bath Fittings has reached to 108 
items. Company continues to import some variety of Bath 
Fittings to service local market. The Company plans to further 
complement the range during 2019-20 by introducing large 
varieties of products in Bath fittings. The Company also plans 
to enhance its manufacturing facility at Pondicherry at adjacent 
plot. The Bath Fittings sales during last year grew by 42% over 
previous year.
 The Company’s business to Export market during the year saw 
a growth of 47.8% in US $ terms. The Company is continuously 
trying to boost its export business of Piping Systems.
 The Division’s Value Added Products sale was 39% compared 
to 38% in the previous year. The Company has also added 
further 87 direct business Channel partners during the year 
taking the total to 1071 Nos. The Company continues to 
expand its reach by appointing Distributors in areas where 
there is a gap. The Company has also started directly servicing 
retailers in selected markets for certain specific products of this 
division.
 The Company has multiple Knowledge Centres across 
the country to train Plumbers and intereact with Farmers, 
Architects and Plumbing consultants in respective zones. 
Currently, they are functioning at Gadegaon, Kochi, Malanpur 
and Kharagpur. Company expects to start such centres at more 
locations in near future.
 With the help of specialists the Company has embarked upon 
a new activity with nomenclature as “Plumbing Workshop” 
which is a full day session to educate Plumbers and Plumbing 
Contractors. Here the sharing is of latest Plumbing techniques 
along with applications of new products introduced by 
Company in the recent past in the range. The markets have 
very well appreciated it and there is pressure on Company to 
increase the Plumbing Workshop number substantially. The 
Company organized 276 Plumbing workshops in the year 
2018-19 throughout the year. Company plans to organize 
close to 500 Plumbing Workshop during the year 2019-20. 
There are now more than 99,000 Plumbers connected with 
the Company.
 Company has started monitoring data of retailers who buy 
regularly through it’s distribution channels. An action plan to 
increase the number of such retailers on all India basis has 
been worked out and will be tracked.
 Company’s FlameGuard fire sprinkler system is moving slowly 
but steadily in the Indian market. Many leading developers in 
Mumbai accepted the concept and started using the system. 
At present there are 10-12 on-going projects of prestigious 
builders in Mumbai. Apart from Mumbai, the system is 
supplied to projects in Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat and 
Telangana. Apart from residential projects, Company expects 
good business from the Hotel Industry all over India. In last 
financial year, Company exported the system to Srilanka and 
Philippines and export base will be further broadened in 
current financial year.
 Company achieved license from Bureau of Indian Standards( 
BIS) to manufacture such pipes. Apart from BIS, FlameGuard 
pipes are also UL listed. The BIS standard for FlameGuard 
fittings has been published and the Company is doing the 
needful for approval. Company has also sent the samples of 
fittings for UL listing at USA and expect UL listing within 2-3 
months. To reduce the dependency on imports some more 
fittings are being developed indigenously. Thereafter Company 
will be in position to supply majorly indigenously manufactured 
products and will become more competitive in business.
 BIS Standard for the installation of the sprinkler system is not 
yet revised. However, the CPVC as an alternate material is in 
consideration in the draft. After the standard gets published, 
the business will be boosted.
 As far as the approval part is considered, the system being new 
to the Indian Market, multiple approvals are required. There 
is no fixed format and it changes from state to state and even 
city to city. At present Company has approvals from Chief Fire 
Officer (CFO) Mumbai, Director Fire Services Maharashtra, 
Gujarat, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. Recently the system 
was also approved by Dy. Director Uttar Pradesh which will 
facilitate business in NCR market.
 To support environment concern the Company is gearing up 
to meet with National Green Tribunal and court directive of 
phasing out Lead stabilizers from manufacturing of different 
types of uPVC Pipes. The Company is planning a phased 
out schedule for different variety of PVC Pipes having Lead 
stabilizers to produce with Lead free stabilizers.
4.2 Consumer Products
4.2.1 Furniture
 The Company’s furniture business during the year grew by 
14 % in value terms and 5% in volume terms reaching R 400 
Crore mark during the year. The growth of the Company has 
been higher than other leading brands of Plastic Furniture 
among plastic furniture segment. However, the sales of 
unorganized players continued to gather momentum due to 
high acceptance of brown colour and matt finish products 
where the use of reprocessed polymers makes little difference 
in the overall appeal of the product.
 The Company successfully completed the process of 
setting up a Green Field project for manufacture of Injection 
Moulded Furniture at Jadcherla near Hyderabad in Telangana. 
The plant has gone into operation from first week of April 
2019 and will help the Company in improving its market 
share in Southern States. In fact, the new plant will serve as 
a feeder unit for all other zones also due to its location & 
connectivity. The additional capacity of this green field project 
will enable the Company to grow rapidly during the year. Apart 
from Jadcherla plant, the Company currently manufactures 
Injection Moulded Furniture at Puducherry (UT), Durgapur 
(West Bengal), Derabassi (Punjab), Gadegaon (Maharashtra) 
& Guwahati (Assam) to cater effectively different regions of 
the country.
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED Page 39
ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19
 The Company also manufactures Blow Moulded Tables at its 
Kharagpur (West Bengal) plant which has now stabilized and 
showing good growth over last year. However, the plant is still 
operating at less than 50 % of its capacity. Looking at wide 
acceptance of Blow Moulded Tables and increase in range, 
the Company expects to utilize 70-75 % capacity utilization 
by end of this year. The Company currently manufactures 11 
products made with Blow Moulded technology which have 
been well appreciated by the market. The Company will 
commercially launch six new products in the first quarter to 
cater different market segments and increase acceptance of 
Blow Moulded products. The Company is optimistic about 
future growth from this segment and would look forward to 
expand its capacity for achieving economies of scale. The 
export potential of this segment is yet to be realized due to 
high cost of metal fabrication.
 The Company has already committed investment on various 
new furniture models which will go into production by 2nd & 
3rd Quarter of the year and help in growth of business during 
the year. The Company introduced twelve new furniture 
models during the year. The Company’s two seater rattan 
finish Love Seat Sofa which made an ideal combination with 
its fast selling model Cambridge Chair and Vegas Center Table 
was well appreciated during the year in domestic as well as 
International Market. All the new models introduced during 
the year were well appreciated and the Company hopes to 
get good growth from its new introductions.
 The Company plans to start manufacture of Roto Moulded 
Furniture and expect to launch Four models of Roto Moulded 
Furniture in 1st Quarter of this year.
 The Company’s furniture is currently available to its customers 
through nationwide network of 12,000 retailers. The Company 
plans to add another 1400 retailers during the year. The 
Company increased its strength of channel partners from 
900 to 1045 Nos and continues to increase its presence in 
unrepresented areas. The Company has established itself as a 
premium brand amongst its trade channel and customers due 
to its continuous focus on Quality, innovation and wide range 
of products. It is perceived as Premium Furniture Manufacturer 
by trade partners and consumers.
 The Company continues to focus on developing its export 
market and has received good acceptance by various 
customers. The Company participated in Three International 
Furniture Exhibition in the year. This initiative enabled it to 
show case it’s wide range of Furniture in various International 
markets.
 The Company achieved breakthrough with some of the leading 
retailers in international market. This has resulted in value 
growth to R 5.50 crores in the year under review compared to 
an export of R 1.90 crores inn the 2017-18 year. This augurs 
well for future high growth in Furniture export business.
 The Company has now been awarded SA 8000 certification for 
its Lalru plant reinforcing the practices adopted of international 
standards for social accountability which would help in adding 
more large retailers as it’s customers in future.
4.3 Industrial Products
4.3.1 Industrial Components
 The year started against the backdrop of improved business 
sentiments resulting from gradual economic recovery and 
various steady reforms initiated by the government. Demand 
revival took momentum both in Automotive and Consumer 
Durable sector being catered by the Division. At the beginning 
of the year, the Division had projected growth of 16% and 18% 
in Value and Volume terms in both the sectors put together. 
The trend was quite encouraging until November’18 but took 
severe beating thereafter. This was because market didn’t pick 
up as expected during festive season resulting in inventory pile 
up with most of Automobile and Appliances manufacturers 
followed by sluggish demand thereafter. However, Company 
acquired sizable order for supply of sub-assemblies for EVMs 
and VVPATs which helped to cover deficit in sales occurred 
during last 4 months of the year. Division grew by 20% and 
12% respectively in Value and Volume terms over previous 
year.
 As informed earlier, Khushkhera Unit of the division was 
transferred to newly formed joint venture company namely 
Kumi Supreme India Pvt Limited promoted jointly with Kumi 
Kasai Co of Japan on 30th June,2018 as a going concern. This 
JV Company grew 14% and 6% in value and volume terms 
over previous year when this plant was part of Supreme Entity. 
This JV has been continuously acquiring good business from 
Maruti Suzuki, Honda Motors and other tier 1 customers in 
many of its new models. Company expects good long-term 
prospects of that JV Company with these customers.
 In order to meet improved demand of one of the Company’s 
major AC customer the Company had decided to put up a 
new plant at Ghiloth near Nimarana, Rajasthan and is operative 
since September’18. This plant is equipped with the most 
modern manufacturing facilities. Scope is kept for future 
expansion as company expects good growth from this facility 
during years to come. Noida Plant revenue together with 
Ghiloth Plant grew by over 9%. Demand for AC and Coolers 
is steadily improving indicating healthy growth in future. Noida 
and Ghiloth plant together are poised to be focused entities 
for White Goods Business. Both the plants together embarked 
on Operational Excellence Program to become Future Ready.
 Auto Business in the western India improved further during 
FY18-19 first half revenue steadily improving from our major 
customer Tata Motors being mainly serviced from Talegaon 
Plant. Company acquired a major non-recurring order of EVM 
and VVPATs sub assemblies, which kept the plant busy for 
more than 2 quarters improving the plant capacity utilization. 
Company is aggressively focusing to improve ROI by various 
BPR measures.
Chennai Plant registered Revenue growth of over 27% buoyed 
by good demand from Appliances Sector Customers. Company 
has embarked on expanding this plant to exploit future 
Business opportunities here. The facility will be operational 
by second quarter of the current year. This expansion should 
help company to improve plant revenue significantly during 
next couple of years. Pondy Plant achieved a good Revenue 
growth of 16% driven by good demand for Washing Machines. 
The drive was taken to improve the operations further to 
enhance productivity, Quality, Cost Optimization, and Skills 
Up-gradation to meet increased expectations from customers 
and stay competitive. Both Chennai and Pondy plant would 
work to establish high level of synergy to become major 
Industrial Plastic Parts and Assembly Source of South.
Durgapur Plant also achieved healthy value and volume 
growth of 28% and 25% respectively due to maturation of the 
new businesses acquired during previous years. Company has 
planned Operational Excellence initiatives and major re-layout 
of the plant to improve Overall Operations.
Page 40 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
 Company has taken drive to rationalize and reorient the 
machine capacities at its various locations to align it with the 
changed Product- Mix. While doing so, the new machines 
and equipment being added are equipped with the latest 
Technology, Energy efficient, designed for Good repeatability 
for better quality and improved productivity. Wherever 
feasible and cost-effective, Automation is being considered 
to for better productivity and quality. All these initiatives 
will ensure enhanced Quality, Productivity, Safety, Energy 
conservation and Cost Optimization. It is helping us to negate 
the impact of inflation due to various manufacturing cost 
increases. The various such initiatives of the Company would 
support Environment and help Go Green. Continuous focus 
on employee engagement initiatives is helping company to 
enhance its Human Capital.
 Overall rating of the company by its customers meets or 
exceeds their expectations. Company is considered a highly 
dependable and valuable supplier. The Journey towards 
excellence is being cultivated as a culture and will be 
continuous.
4.3.2 Material Handling Products
 The Material Handling Products Division (MHD) has performed 
with good results in few sectors and below expectations in few 
sectors. Overall the Division has performed reasonably well 
during the year under review.
 The Division caters diverse Industry needs with following 
products lines
1) Crates:- for Industrial, Engineering, Automobiles, Retail
2) Fisheries, Fruit & Vegetable and Dairy.
3) Pallet for Warehousing, storage and Transit of material.
4) Bottle crates- For soft drink and beverages industries
5) Roto moulded crates, Pallet, Dustbins and customized 
products
 The Industrial crates which services to Sector like, Automobile, 
Engineering, Appliances , FMCG and Retails has grown over by 
9%, Considering the flat results of Automobile and Engineering, 
Appliances sectors which are the main customers for industrial 
crates the growth is good .New crates models introduced 
during the year have been well accepted by the customers 
and are expected to give good growth next year as well.
 Your Company continues to provide customized fabricated 
crates solution for the major Automobile and Appliances 
customers even when these industries had very sluggish year, 
our business has shown steady growth and retention of major 
customers.
 In Dairy business your Company has developed a patented 
design model with good initial successes, The Company is 
confident that during the current year the model will be a 
game changer in Dairy Industry.
 In Pallet the Division has posted excellent result with growth 
of over 34%, both injection and roto pallets have shown good 
results achieved through Industrial customers only. None of 
the Govt. Agencies have purchased any significant quantities 
during the year under review. Company will soon introduce 
few more models to serve more numbers of customers which 
are not served presently. Your company has also planned to 
enhance the capacity for Pallet production during the current 
year considering the momentum of sales and is hopeful of 
even better results with its pallet range.
 The division has introduced a new product line “PP Corrugated 
Sheet” manufacturing at Lalru, Punjab unit. This product line 
is aimed to provide high quality customized, value added 
products to its customers. After initial teething troubles 
during first few months, this product line has started showing 
progressive results. Division is hopeful of running full capacity 
during the current year and fulfill its’ customer aspirations of 
consistent top quality product which is presently not available 
to them with smaller & unorganised players
 Roto products of Division have shown positive trends with 
over 13% growth. With locational advantage of geographically 
manufacturing spread, Division shall be introducing many 
customized solutions in this category also during the year for 
even better growth.
 The Company has introduced one model in Injection moulded 
dustbin with high acceptance. Looking at the success of this 
model, other models are in pipeline for the current year to 
ensure the market participation and be a part of Swachha 
Bharat Mission.
 The Bottle Crates business of the Division languished due to 
poor demand from major soft drink players.
 Your Company follows strict quality norms and refrains from 
using recycled plastic particularly demanded in Fruit and 
Vegetable crates category. Fruits and vegetable crates are sold 
only to selected quality conscious customers.
 Division is continuously growing its distribution network with 
over 210 channel partner all over India. Division still need 
to strengthen its network and increase its distribution spread 
specially in eastern and southern India.
4.3.3 Composite LPG Cylinder
 The Company received order for 80,000 cylinders for 
supplies to Bangladesh in the beginning of this financial year. 
Company started executing the order in time bound manner. 
The Company received some complaints which had arisen 
due to non-conformity of some bought out components. The 
Company stopped supplies beyond 63,000 cylinders after 
knowing quality problem on these components.
 The Company’s technical team in consultation with it’s 
associate in The Czech Republic has found a workable solution 
to address the issue at Bangladesh. It will take few months to 
resolve the issue. Based on that, the Company is addressing 
the quality issues in certain quantities among the cylinders 
supplied.
 The Company has made necessary provision of cost involved 
in addressing this issue, in the working of the year 2018-19.
 Supplies of 20 kg. cylinders to Korea is being used successfully. 
The Company hopes to get good orders from it’s customers in 
Korea.
 The Company has also supplied initial quantities in the African 
Continent. Company expects to supply further quantities in 
this financial year.
 The Company has received indications from Oil Marketing 
Companies to get more orders from Government Oil 
Companies in this year.
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED Page 41
ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19
 The Company was hopeful of turnaround of this Division in the 
financial year 2018-19 but due to quality issue of Bought out 
component, it turned out to be a tough year. The Company 
expects improved performance from 3rd quarter onwards in 
the current financial year in this division.
4.4 Packaging Products
4.4.1 Packaging Films
 Performance Films Division (PFD)
 The Performance Films Division has achieved expansion in 
capacity at the Company’s existing location in Khopoli. The 
division has acquired a new 7 layer film extrusion unit as well 
as an 8 colour CI Flexographic Printing press. Both of the new 
equipments will help the Company to deliver better quality of 
product and will improve our lead times due to the increase 
in flexibility of production capabilities.
 The Company has also added one lamination unit to cater 
to demand from its existing customers. This will also help the 
Company in creating value added products to its portfolio.
 The division has a slow-down in business owing to competitive 
pressure and increase in manufacturing capacity in the industry 
in the year under review.
 Overall sale was 6703 tons as against 7454 tons in the previous 
year due to intense competition. Consequently the sales value 
was also lower from R 125.31 crores to R 109.63 crores. 
Exports were also lower at 1316 tons as against 1659 tons in 
the previous year. Here also the prices were under pressure 
due to stiff competition from Indian manufacturers.
 The Company remains optimistic in the current year. Even 
though the prices are under pressure, the customers base is 
sustained due to the Company’s quality commitment and 
service.
 The Company expects to achieve substantial volume and value 
growth in this business in the current year due to increase 
in customer base in India and Abroad. This has been made 
possible due to increase in the production capacity with 
improved product mix.
4.4.2 Protective packaging division (PPD)
 PPD has recorded 10.18 % growth in value and 11.50 % in 
volume during the year under review. The total sale achieved 
is 26018 MT as against 23335 MT of last year.
 EPE requirement has been growing in mattress application.
 The division has installed additional foam production capacity 
of 4000 MTPA at Hosur to meet the increasing demand for 
south market. The division is also working to enhance the 
productivity of existing extruders at all places to cater to the 
increasing demand.
 The division is also starting a new facility at the Jadcherla 
complex with an EPE capacity of 3200 tons of epe alongwith 
1440 tons of ABF, to cater to the increasing demand in 
Telangana & Andhra Pradesh alongwith some neighboring 
states which are logistically cost effective. Due to civil delays 
the plant is expected to go on stream by 2nd quarter of this 
financial year.
 The division is also now on the verge of offering a premium 
range of foam variants to all institutional mattress customers.
 New NBR sheet plant at Malanpur has started commercial 
production during the month of September 2018. The 
Company’s products have been appreciated in the market. 
Within two months of operation the new plant has been 
stabilized with the targeted density of 45 kg/m3. Also many 
of the imported ingredients have been replaced by local 
ingredients. By adding an adhesive lamination line, a large 
numbers of variants have now been added. A few more new 
variants will be added in the coming year. The division will be 
offering a comprehensive list of thermal insulating products.
 The Two units at Hosur were merged into a single unit. This 
unit now has a total built up area of over 350000 sq ft. The 
modern layout ensures a smooth flow of material ensuring 
movement efficiencies. The vacated premise of Unit 1 has 
been sold. The overall production capacity stands at 15000 
tons against 10000 tons in the previous year. The division 
expects significant growth of business in South zone
 Kharagpur capacity of EPE foam was also increased by 2600 
tons in the year under review. Production of single stage, 
crosslinked block foam has also commenced in the month of 
March 2019 to better service the East Zone customers
 Due to introduction of new pollution control norms in 
Maharashtra, production of Air bubble film line and lower 
thickness foam was stopped at Urse for two months which 
has affected the business of west zone to some extent.
 Packaging
 Packaging vertical has grown by 5.91 % in value and 8.66 % 
in volume as against last year. Major growth has come from 
polyethylene foam business due to superior quality of low 
density against other local competitors. The Tandem Foam 
Extruder which had been developed by the Engineering team 
is one of the key factors for growth of this business.
 The division has successfully developed many items for 
Decathlon which were earlier imported by them. The division 
expects few more products to be introduced this year. Talks 
are on to enroll Supreme as a global supplier by Decathlon.
 Several new products have been added to our range of single 
stage block Cross linked foam products for the footwear and 
packaging industries. The overall installed production capacity 
has also increased from 5000 MTPA to 6300 MTPA at Hosur 
and Malanpur.
 The business of Two stage block foam which was sluggish for 
the past few years has now picked up. Production capacity 
has been doubled from 203 MTPA to around 324 MTPA with 
marginal investment during the year to cater to the increased 
demand.
 Civil
 Civil business has grown by 14.16% in value and 13.95 
% in volume in the current year. Increased infrastructure 
development in the country has increased business opportunity 
in Government projects. DURA floor protector – XF which 
is a composite product of Silpaulin and EPE foam used as a 
re-usable floor protection for interior works is now gaining 
popularity in the market and is expected to grow further in 
the current year.
 Insulation
 The growth of Insulation vertical has shown significant growth 
of 49.46% in value and 68.27% in volume against the previous 
year. This is on account of introduction of NBR sheets & 
large diameter tubes in the year under review. Business of 
PE crosslink foam had taken a beating in the previous years 
Page 42 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
on account of multiple manufacturers entering the field, 
& continued offering inferior products at low prices. To 
counter the same, the Company has developed several low 
cost products,with better properties, duly certified. Business 
is improving due to wider range of product portfolio & the 
Company expects further improvement in the coming year.
 This vertical has initiated several steps to reduce cost of 
products without compromising quality against declared 
specification duly certified. The R&D team is also working on 
several International certifications for Insu range of products. 
With the introduction of NBR sheets, the division is now 
offering a wide range of Insulation products which are generally 
specified by HVAC consultants. The vertical is expecting good 
business growth in the current year.
 The division is working on developing several acoustic 
insulation products. What started as a Two product offering 
a couple of years ago is now a multi product offering. As the 
Company learns the business of acoustics better, it hopes to 
grow this into a full fledged vertical.
 Exports
 The division has participated for the first time in two 
International Foam Exhibitions. New markets need different 
certifications. The process is on and the division expects 
positive results. Exports during the year were R 770 lacs against 
R 218 lacs in the previous year.
 Technology
 In last two years, the division had developed 2 nos. of 400 
kg/hr capacity Tandem Extruder through a Korean vendor. 
Now the division has developed 500 kg / hr Tandem Extruder 
which is running successfully at Hosur unit. These extruders 
are generally used for making low density foam, which creates 
an advantage against competitors.
 Product - Recognition
 The Company’s INSU ranges of products are certified as 
GREEN by CII – Sohrabji Godrej Green Business Centre on 
behalf of IGBC. The INSU range of products are also certified 
with International standards UL VO (Taiwan), NZ 1530 (New 
Zealand). NBR sheets and tubes have also been certified by FM 
USA for its superior fire resistance. The division is working on 
getting few more International certifications which will create 
further export opportunities in the forthcoming period.
4.4.3 Cross Laminated Film
 The Business of Cross Laminated Film & Products had a positive 
growth in volume during the year despite stiff competition 
from several players who have entered this business in last 
two years.
 The Company’s main products are Tarpaulins, bags, fumigation 
covers, vermi bed, rainwater harvesting sheets & pond liners. 
With most parts of India facing water crisis the Government 
is focusing on harvesting water. The Government of India has 
doled out many schemes for conservation of water including 
subsidies to farmers for building water ponds. This has resulted 
in increase in demand for Company’s pond liners which is 
available with warranty.
 The new fabricated products developed by the Company 
have been well accepted by the market. The Company has 
developed many products by laminating the XF film with other 
substrates. The Company expects the sale of these fabricated / 
laminated products to grow manifolds during the coming year.
 The Company was earlier selling Reprocess Granules which 
it was unable to reuse. During the year Company has 
manufactured & sold tarpaulins made from own generated 
Reprocess Granules to target the low cost Tarpaulin Segment. 
This product is well accepted in the Market & will give better 
realization, than selling such granules.
 The quality of the product offered by several new players who 
have entered this business is not comparable. To distinguish 
Company’s products from those of competitors the Company 
is promoting products made from Cross Line Bonded Film. 
This film is now available in all the thicknesses & has patent 
protection. The Company is aiming to substantially increase the 
capacity to manufacture these products. The Company now 
owns the patents worldwide & hence there is lot of savings in 
royalties which would have been payable otherwise.
 In USA the Company has tied up with some local players 
to sell the product online on Amazon & through some store 
chains online and offline. The Company is now receiving 
repeat orders from USA customers. The Company is planning 
to showcase its product in exhibitions to be held in South 
East Asia, Latin America, Africa & USA. This will open up 
new markets besides strengthening the existing markets. The 
Company’s Exports have grown by 14% in volume over the 
previous year.
 The Company’s bags are finding more acceptance from 
industrial product makers. The business of bags has gone up 
by 21% in volume in the year compared to previous year.
 The Company’s technical collaborator has now perfected the 
Cross Plastic Film Technology & is in the process of preparing 
drawings of the equipment’s for manufacturing this film. The 
Company intends to place orders for the equipment’s in the 
coming year. The Company has now acquired worldwide rights 
in the patents of newly developed Cross Plastics Technology 
from it’s Collaborator which will bring in lots of savings in the 
years to come.
4.5 Construction Business
 The company has developed Commercial Premises viz 
“Supreme Chambers” with a view to monetize the land parcel 
it held on shifting of its manufacturing activities out of Mumbai. 
The aesthetically designed green building having many ecofriendly features & infrastructure facilities was completed 
in 2010-2011 with all permissions including Occupation 
Certificate in place.
 At the beginning of the year total 51258 sq ft of saleable area 
was available for Sale at the said premises. During the year 
under review the Company sold 38718 sq ft saleable area at 
an aggregate consideration of R 80.85 crores. Now only 12540 
sq ft remaining area is available for sale.
 The Company is hopeful to monetize the same during the 
current year.
5. FINANCE
1. A brief on borrowing levels and finance cost is given below:-
Particulars Measure F.Y.
2018-19
F.Y.
2017-18
Net borrowing 
level at the end 
of the year
R In crores 160.94 246.40
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED Page 43
ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19
Particulars Measure F.Y.
2018-19
F.Y.
2017-18
Average 
Monthly 
Borrowings
R in crores 265.58 335.95
Interest & 
finance charges
R In crores 26.00 20.64
Average cost of 
borrowings at 
the end of the 
year
% p. a 8.23 7.12
Financial cost as 
a % of Turnover
% 0.46 0.41
Total Debt : 
Equity Ratio
0.08 0.14
 RBI kept the Key policy rates at elevated levels during majority 
period of the year under review. The Repo rate, was at 6.00% at 
the start of the year touched a high of 6.50% in the December, 
2018 Thereafter the RBI has reduced the Repo Rate by 25 
bps each in February 2019 & in April 2019 aggregating to 
the reduction of 50 bps in their respective monetary review 
meetings. Thus the Repo Rate has been gradually brought 
down to 6.00%presently. The higher rates generally resulted 
in relatively higher cost of borrowing for the working capital 
requirements of the Company.
2. Working Capital Borrowing
2.1. Foreign Currency Borrowing
 After the discontinuation of Letter of Undertakings (LOUs) by 
RBI, availability of low cost Working capital Credit in foreign 
currency (Buyer’s credits) became scarce initially. However, 
the Company has managed to restart availing of Buyer’s credit 
funding, directly from overseas lenders at competitive rates.
2.2. Commercial Papers
 During the year under review, the Company continued to 
place cost effective Commercial Papers (CPs) in the market to 
avail low cost INR funding. However, with the latest guidelines 
from RBI, w.e.f. 1st April, 2019, borrowers will have to avail 
40% (60% w.e.f. 1st July, 2019) of Fund based limits by way of 
Working capital demand loans (WCDL) from Banks. As a result 
the Company’s cost of borrowing is expected to go up, as it 
will have to reduce its exposure to CPs and Buyer’s Credits, 
in favour of costlier WCDLs.)
2.3. Dealers’ financing & Vendor Management.
 The Dealers’ finance facilities extended to the selected Channel 
Partners of the Company has progressed well with more & 
more Channel Partners are interested to get enrolled on the 
Channel Finance Scheme. The total sanctioned limit under the 
scheme was around R 87 crores & the utilization was around 
R 61 crores at the end of the year.
 The company continues to negotiate favourable credit terms 
with its suppliers for effectively managing its working capital 
requirements.
3. Term Debt
 During the year under review, the Company has repaid its 
entire term debt component amounting to R 15.38 crores and 
has become debt free Company (except for its Working capital 
facilities).
4. CRISIL Rating
 During the year, the Rating for Company’s Short term bank 
facilities was reaffirmed at “CRISIL A1+” by CRISIL (which is 
highest rating for the Short term instruments).
 CRISIL vide its letter dated 2nd April 2019 has upgraded the 
Rating for Long Term Bank facilities from “CRISIL AA Stable” 
to “CRISIL AA Positive (Outlook Revised from stable and rating 
reaffirmed)”.
 The outlook revision is driven by improvement in the 
company’s business risk profile led by strengthening presence 
in the domestic market backed by wider distribution network 
and expected increase in number of manufacturing facilities. 
The company has a strong market position across multiple 
segments in the plastic products industry, and high-margin, 
value-added products make a healthy contribution of around 
35% to revenue.
5. Capital Expenditure
5.1. Considering optimistic business growth potential, the Company 
has incurred Capital Expenditure (Capex) of R 384 crores, 
during the year under review. The highlights of the Capex 
incurred are as follows.
a) Increase in capacity of Plastics Pipe and Fittings at 
Khargapur, Jalgaon and Malanpur.
b) Increase in capacity of Roto moulded products at 
Malanpur, Kanpur and Jadcherla.
c) Increase in capacity of Protective Packaging Products at 
Malanpur, Kharagpur, Hosur and Jadcherla.
d) Increase in capacity of Plastic moulded furniture/Material 
Handling crates at Jadcherla, Lalru and Durgapur.
e) Increase in capacity of Industrial Components at Ghiloth 
and Talegaon.
f) Increase in capacity of Multilayer performance Packaging 
film at Khopoli.
g) Addition of new moulds to increase product range and 
introduce new products in Plastics pipe and fittings, 
Furniture and Material handling products.
5.2. During the current year i.e. 2019-20, the Company envisages 
Capex in the range of about R 300-350 crores, mainly on the 
following.
a) Putting Moulding shop at Kharagpur complex
b) Establishing capacity to manufacture PVC Pipe System/
HDPE Pipe System/CPVC Pipe System/PEX Piping system 
at Jadcherla
c) Expanding Roto Moulding Capacity at Jadcherla
d) Putting another Unit at Pondy’s new site to increase Bath 
fitting capacity
e) Adding several varieties of Injection Moulding and Blow 
moulded furniture in the Company’s range of furniture
f) Installing additional equipment to increase production of 
XL Bonded XF film at It’s Silvassa and Get Muvala Units.
g) Increasing PVC Pipe manufacturing capacity at Kanpur 
Dehat Unit
Page 44 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
h) To add innovative fabricating machines to produce several 
varieties of new fabricated products from XF film.
i) To add end of the line fabrication machines for 
performance packaging films.
j) To install balancing machines in Protective Packaging 
Division
k) To increase capacity at Gadegaon and replace certain 
old machines at Lalru plant and to invest in moulds for 
increased product range in Material Handling Products
l) To expand capacities in Industrial Product Division at 
Ghiloth and Chennai moulding unit
 During the year under review (1) the company has divested its 
Khushkheda unit to a newly formed joint venture company viz 
Kumi Supreme India Pvt Ltd and realized net gain of R 70.44 
crores from the proceeds thereof (2) Relocated all its Plant & 
Machineries from Hosur unit 1 to Hosur unit 2 & sold land & 
buildings at Hosur unit 1 & realized R 17.41 crores therefrom.
 Moreover the company has also realized R 80.85 crores from 
the Sale of commercial premises at Supreme Chambers.
 In view of the receipt of the above proceeds coupled with 
internal accruals from its operational performance, company’s 
Cash flows average monthly borrowings have been reduced 
by R 70.37 crores inspite of large capital expenditure and 
increased working capital requirement.
 With the steady growth in cash accruals in the medium term 
with moderate Capex of around R 350 to R 400 crores annually 
financial risk profile of the company should remain robust in 
coming years.
6. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
 The Company has adequate internal audit and control 
systems. Internal auditors comprising of professional firms of 
Chartered Accountants have been entrusted the job to conduct 
regular internal audits at all units/ locations and report to the 
management the lapses, if any. Both internal auditors and 
statutory auditors independently evaluate the adequacy of 
internal control system. Based on the audit observations and 
suggestions, follow up, remedial measures are being taken 
including review and increase in the scope of coverage, if 
necessary. The Audit Committee of Directors, in its periodical 
meetings, review the adequacy of internal control systems and 
procedures and suggest areas of improvements.
 The Company has undertaken a detailed exercise to revisit 
its control systems in technical and other non financial 
areas to align them properly with Management Information 
Systems (MIS) to make MIS more efficient and result oriented. 
Information technology base created by the Company over 
the period is providing a very useful helping hand in the 
process. Needless to mention, that ensuring maintenance of 
proper accounting records, safeguarding assets against loss and 
misappropriation, compliance of applicable laws, rules and 
regulations and providing reasonable assurance against fraud 
and errors will continue to remain central point of the entire 
control systems.
7. HUMAN RESOURCES
 Human resource is considered as key to the future growth 
strategy of the Company and looks upon to focus its efforts 
to further align human resource policies, processes and 
initiatives to meet its business needs. In order to focus on 
keeping employees abreast of technological and technical 
developments, the Company provides opportunity for training 
and learning within the country and abroad. Industrial relations 
at all the units and locations are cordial.
 Continuous focus on employee engagement initiatives is 
helping company to enhance its Human Capital. Company is 
envisaging certain fast track initiatives under HR Umbrella to 
enhance skilling of its human resource to improve its capability 
to meet future needs of Digital Manufacturing. Whenever 
required, Company is employing manpower under various 
programs of Skill Development Ministry to support National 
Cause.
Cautionary Statement
Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis describing 
the Company’s objectives, expectations or predictions may be 
forward looking within the meaning of applicable securities, laws 
and regulations. Actual results may differ materially from those 
expressed in the statement. Important factors that would influence 
the Company’s operations include cost of raw materials, tax laws, 
interest and power cost and economic developments and such 
other factors within the country