Management Discussion and Analysis
1. OVERVIEW
Various initiatives taken by the center and state governments 
have given desired boost to the plastic pipe business. There 
is quantum jump in construction of affordable houses. The 
infrastructure activities comprising supplying drinking water 
and to boost the sewage system have gathered momentum.
Naturally all these activities supported by a large range of SKU’s 
in Company’s Plastic Pipe System and launching of additional 
systems have boosted growth in Plastic Pipe Business.
At the end of the year i.e. beginning second half of March 
2020 the business was severely affected due to Covid-19 
Pandemic. The Lockdown is now entering Lockdown 4.0. As 
the time passes, the focus of Government is moving to create a 
balance between Health and Safety of the Countrymen while 
keeping eyes to revive the economy back on growth path.
Government is taking incremental steps every day in different 
parts of the country to give desired boost to the economy. In 
that direction Government has announced r 20 Lakh Crore 
package which is touching several sectors of the economy 
especially to support underprivileged population of the 
country.
With the Country’s preparedness over the last two months 
to prepare to fight against Covid-19 Pandemic which suitably 
supported by this large relief package which is around 10% of 
India’s annual GDP, it is expected that during second quarter 
of the year 2020-21 the economy may start to revive to serve 
the country with a higher growth potential.
Considering the bright future prospects, the Company has not 
slowed down its investment plans. The same was however 
delayed due to cease of activities in different parts of the 
country as a result of Lockdown which remains applicable in 
various parts of the country.
The Company expects that by September this year the business 
should be returning to normalcy and will move to growth path 
by November.
2. PRODUCT GROUPS:
The product groups of the Company have been recast as 
follows:
Group Products
Plastics 
Piping 
System
uPVC Pipes, Injection Moulded PVC fittings and 
handmade fittings, Polypropylene Random Copolymer pipe system, HDPE Pipe Systems, CPVC 
Pipes Systems, Inspection Chambers, manholes, 
Toilets Bath fittings, Roto moulded Tanks and 
Fittings and Solvents, Industrial Piping System, 
DWC PE Pipe System and Fire Sprinkler System
Consumer 
products
Furniture 
Industrial 
Products
Industrial Components, Material handling 
System and Pallets - Roto moulded crates, pallets 
and garbage bins and Composite LPG Cylinders.
Packaging 
Products
Flexible packaging film products, Protective 
Packaging Products, Cross Laminated Film 
products.
PRODUCT GROUP WISE SHARE IN TURNOVER FOR 
THE LAST TWO YEARS (% OF VALUE)
Plastics Piping 
System 63% Packaging 
Products 18%
Industrial 
Products 12% 
Consumer 
Products 7%
2019-20
Plastics Piping 
System 58% Packaging 
Products 19%
Industrial 
Products 16% 
Consumer 
Products 7%
2018-19
The net turnover (including other income) of the Company 
for the year under review was r 5530.07 Crores (including 
r 32.52 Crores by way of trading in other related products 
and r 25.60 crores from sale of Premises) as against r 5632.47 
Crores (including r 46.36 Crores by way of trading in other 
related products and r 80.85 crores from sale of Premises) 
during the previous year.
The Company has sold 4,11,521 tons of Plastic products as 
against 3,97,983 tons of Plastic products in the corresponding 
period of previous year, reflecting a growth of 3.40 % in 
product turnover by volume. 
The Company exported goods worth US $ 18.29 million as 
against US $ 23.05 million during the corresponding period 
of the previous year. Profit before interest, depreciation and 
exceptional items and taxes during the period under review 
have been at r 853.71 Crores as against r 804.57 Crores during 
the previous year.
3. COMPANY’S STRENGTH AND GROWTH DRIVERS
3.1 Manufacturing Sites
The Company is operating from 25 manufacturing sites 
operating across 12 state and Union Territories. The Company 
is in the process to create state-of-the-art Plastics Product 
Complex at Jadcherla in Telangana state. The unit will be 
adding several new systems in its product portfolio to serve 
Agriculture, Housing and infrastructure sectors in a costefficient manner. The Company has initiated actions to put up 
a Plastics Product Complex at Orissa for which an agreement 
has been entered into to buy 30 (Thirty) Acres of Land to 
expand its geographical spread.
ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
31
3.2 Distribution network
The Company is committed to having its presence throughout 
the country. It is able to increase and also revamping its existing 
distribution network on a continuous basis. The active channel 
partners’ strength remained at 3,567 Nos. by end of March 
2020.
With a renewed push to reach more International Markets, the 
Company has participated in 16 International exhibitions in 
2019-20 for its different products. The company is confident to 
have breakthrough to boost export in additional world markets 
in the year.
Company is serving its customers through maintaining more 
depots for its different product groups to serve its customers 
in a cost efficient manner.
3.3 Growth Drivers
The Company is continuously working to strengthen its Brand. 
It is increasing its’ spend on Advertisement through Electronic 
and Print Media and participating in several National and 
International exhibitions. The Company organises large number 
of Plumbing Workshops to educate plumbers on how to install 
the piping system in a cost efficient manner. It holds thousands 
of small plumber meets spread throughout the year. Besides, 
meets with Farmers, Borer groups, Plumbing Contractors, 
Builders and Architects are also held throughout the year. 
Company is quite active to seek legal remedy to contain 
counterfeit products in its range of products to protect 
consumers from getting cheated.
Company has opened knowledge centers in several parts of 
the country to showcase its product portfolio, guide on correct 
installation techniques with a focus on plastics Pipe System 
and Cross Laminated Film products for several cost efficient 
applications
4. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
4.1 PLASTICS PIPING SYSTEMS
The Company continues its objective to grow Plastic Pipe 
System business. The Company is leader in this segment 
as it has the largest portfolio of products, which is being 
continuously increased to offer more systems as required in 
the economy.
The Company during the year under review registered an 
overall revenue growth of about 8.5% in Plastic Piping System 
made from different plastic materials. Overall the Company 
sold 3,00,772 Tons of Pipe System compared to 2,79,748 Tons 
in the previous year.
The Government at the Centre and States has put the priority 
focus on Swatch Bharat Abhiyan, Sanitation and affordable 
houses to all and development of 100 smart cities on all India 
basis. Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA) has created a major 
transformation the way housing construction for sale was in 
vogue in the Country. Many prominent Business Houses have 
made ambitious plans in this sector to grow geometrically with 
launch of their projects at multiple locations. For affordable 
housing segment Company has introduced pocket friendly 
complete drainage system under the different brand name 
“Streamline” which meets all functional requirements of the 
affordable Housing sector. The growth tempo has now started 
and the Company expects good demand coming from the 
segment on continual basis.
The Company has incurred Capex of r 126 crores in this 
year and been put to use in its’ various plants to build more 
capacities and increase range of products. 
The Company with objective of making its footprint for 
manufacturing at South Zone, for Plastic Piping Division, has 
got 50 acres of land allotted at Jadcherla-District Mahbubnagar 
at Telangana. The production of Water & Septic Tanks at that 
location has started. The Company will launch other Piping 
System products at this location in this year. The construction 
work has started for the same. The Company also intends to 
launch new specialty systems from Jadcherla plant for Piping 
System to cater to high-end applications. 
The plant at Kharagpur is fully operational. The capacity 
increase planned for PVC, HDPE & CPVC Pipes is now 
in place and operational. The Company is also exploring 
further increasing the capacity of PVC, HDPE and DWC 
Pipe at Kharagpur plant to cater to increased demand. The 
Company has also started manufacturing of Moulded Fittings 
at Kharagpur to service Eastern market effectively. Further 
capacity expansion of Moulded Fittings has been planned and 
civil work is in progress. Plant will operate with full capacity 
in third quarter of 2020-21.
To meet the increasing demand of HDPE Pipes in North India, 
the Company has put up the capacity in Malanpur Unit No.3. 
The commercial production of the same has started in full 
swing. The Company has planned further capacity expansions 
at that site for HDPE Pipes. Overall HDPE Pipe business grew 
by 46% during this year.
The company now manufactures Roto Moulded Products at 
four geography of country viz., North, South, East and West 
to service market effectively. The Roto Moulded Business 
of the company has grown by 31% during this year. The 
Company launched Roto Moulded Toilet and multi-station 
Urinal basically for construction sites, Melas and exhibitions 
during the year. Both these products are well accepted by the 
market supporting cleanliness and environment. Company 
has also introduced ready to use Toilet Block in modular 
design under the brand “Cleanage”. These modular toilets 
can be installed as single unit or in a series with multiple units 
with minimum space requirements. The Company has put 
plans in place to substantially increase the business of Water 
Tanks through different market strategy of servicing directly 
to retailers from the respective factories at many places. The 
same will be further acted upon this year to get the desired 
results. The company is also exploring to start manufacturing 
of Roto Products at new location to encash business potential 
by effective servicing. The Company also launched Premium 
range of Water Tanks branded as “Weather Shield” with added 
features such as superior thermal insulation etc., from two 
locations with good market response. Premium range Water 
Tanks are being planned for supplies from all other locations 
during 2020-21.
The production of Double Wall Corrugated HDPE Pipes 
has started from Gadegaon and Kharagpur plants with BIS 
Certification. The Company is in process to educate various 
departments the benefits of putting in place a good quality 
DWC Pipes with latest technology and using virgin certified 
raw materials in terms of performance and longer life.
The Company introduced 36 nos. of variety of Injection 
Moulded Pipe fittings during 2019-20. They all have been well 
received in the market. The Company has plan of introducing 
further new items during the year as per system requirement. 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
32
The total product portfolio in Plastic Pipe System has reached 
8314 nos., thus adding 232 products to the range of various 
Plastic Piping System compared to previous year.
The Company manufactures the cPVC Pipes at three of 
its manufacturing location and cPVC Fittings at two of its 
manufacturing locations. The Company has further expanded 
capacity of cPVC Pipe manufacturing at it’s Malanpur plant. 
The Company also plans to set up facility to make cPVC pipes 
at Jadcherla plant. The necessary machines are being ordered 
and civil work is in progress. The Company plans to add further 
capacities of CPVC Pipes at Malanpur and Kharagpur units. 
The cPVC system sales during last year grew by 17% in value 
over previous year.
The Company has started manufacturing variety of Specialized 
Valves such as Butterfly Valves, Swing Check Valves, Ball type 
non-return Valve etc.. These Valves have been designed for 
different applications like Industrial, Agriculture and Plumbing 
segment. They are made of specialized materials to ensure 
reliability & longer life also to meet best of global standards. 
The Company received positive response from the market. The 
Company intends to increase the range of Valves for Industrial 
usage in the current year.
The AQUAKRAFT Bath Fittings introduced by the Company 
is well established now including newly launched Chrome 
Plated range. There were 23 new items introduced during 
the year. The portfolio in Bath Fittings has reached to 131 
items. Company continues to import some variety of Bath 
Fittings to service local market. The Company plans to further 
complement the range during 2020-21 by introducing large 
varieties of products in Bath fittings. The Company also plans 
to enhance its manufacturing facility at Pondicherry at adjacent 
plot. The necessary work for same has started. The Bath Fittings 
sales during last year grew by 13% over previous year.
The Company’s business to Export market during the year saw a 
de-growth of 31% in US $ terms. The Company is continuously 
trying to boost its export business of Piping Systems in several 
markets.
The Division’s Value Added Products sale was 38% compared to 
37% in the previous year. The Company has also added further 
167 direct business Channel partners during the year taking 
the total to 1214 Nos.. The Company continues to expand its 
reach by appointing Distributors in areas where there is a gap. 
The Company has also started directly servicing retailers in 
selected markets for certain specific products of this division.
The Company has multiple Knowledge Centres across the 
country to train Plumbers and interact with Farmers, Architects 
and Plumbing consultants in respective zones. Currently, they 
are functioning at Gadegaon, Kochi, Malanpur and Kharagpur. 
Company expects to start such centres at more locations in 
near future. 
With the help of specialists the Company has embarked upon 
a new activity with nomenclature as “Plumbing Workshop” 
which is a full day session with Plumbers. Here the sharing is 
of latest Plumbing techniques along with applications of new 
products introduced by the Company in the recent past in 
the range. The markets have well appreciated it and there are 
numerous requests to the Company to increase the Plumbing 
Workshop numbers substantially. The Company organized 284 
Plumbing workshops in the year 2019-20 throughout the year. 
Company plans to organize close to 500 Plumbing Workshop 
during the year 2020-21. There are now more than 80,000 
Plumbers connected with the Company.
Company has started monitoring data of retailers who buy 
regularly through its distribution channels. An action plan to 
increase the number of such retailers on all India basis has 
been worked out and is being tracked. There are now more 
than 32,000 retailers connected with Piping System Business 
on regular basis.
FlameGuard, the Company’s CPVC Fire Sprinkler Systems 
has become first choice for the leading builders in Mumbai. 
In spite of the increased cost of such system as compared to 
metal system, business is growing which inspires trust in the 
system. The Company is making inroads into several markets 
to promote the system with favourable response.
To bring down the cost of the system the Company has 
developed 68 no. of fittings. Each of these fittings has passed 
the stringent testing at UL and now listed by UL. The cost of 
the Indian manufactured product will be 30-40% cheaper 
as compared to the imported fittings from USA. The Indian 
manufactured fittings will contribute approximately 65 % of 
the total cost of the system. The Company will be able to get 
more business from local and cost conscious builders in current 
financial year. All it’s pipe sizes are already approved by UL.
Product approval is a continuous process and the approvals 
are required at multiple stages apart from the approval from 
the fire department. At present the Company has approvals 
from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh fire 
departments. Apart from approvals from the regional heads, 
the Company is required to take the approvals from the 
individual Municipal Corporations.
The Company offers full support to the installer of this system. 
Product installation training is a mandatory requirement 
before the actual installation starts. The Company provides the 
technical support by providing the Bill of Quantities (BOQ) for 
the sprinkler layout of the project. The Company also does the 
value engineering to reduce the cost without compromising 
the quality of the installation.
To support environment concern, Company is gearing up 
to meet with National Green Tribunal and court directive of 
phasing out Lead stabilizers from manufacturing of different 
types of uPVC Pipes. The Company is planning a phased 
out schedule for different variety of PVC Pipes having Lead 
stabilizers to produce with Lead free stabilizers.
4.2 CONSUMER PRODUCTS
4.2.1 FURNITURE
Due to lockdown announced by the Government in second 
half of March 2020, the Company’s furniture business of 
March took a severe hit resulting in drop of annual business by 
3% in value terms and 4% in volume terms. The Company’s 
business had grown by 4% in Value terms and 3% in Volume 
terms for 11 months and was expected to grow in same ratio 
had the lockdown not been announced. The overall sales 
of organized players in Plastic Furniture segment has been 
stagnant or infact declined for 11 month period. However, the 
sales of unorganized players continued to grow at local level. 
The Company expects that with it’s range of different types of 
Furniture and brand strength coupled with countrywide reach, 
it will overcome the competition from unorganized players. 
The Company started manufacture of Roto Moulded Furniture 
with a limited range at its Kharagpur Roto Moulding Unit during 
the year. The company now manufactures furniture made with 
all three different technologies i.e Injection Moulding, Blow 
Moulding and Roto Moulding. The Company manufactures 
ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
33
furniture made with Injection Moulding at six locations spread 
across the country which are Jadcherla (Telangana), Puducherry 
(UT), Durgapur (West Bengal), Derabassi (Punjab), Gadegaon 
(Maharashtra) & Guwahati (Assam) to effectively cater different 
regions of the country. The manufacturing facility for Blow 
Moulded Furniture as well as Roto Moulded Furniture is at 
Kharagpur (West Bengal). 
The Company has been manufacturing Injection Moulded 
Furniture for 29 years and is a market leader in terms of its 
product range & quality. The Company has many firsts to its 
credit, be it in terms of technology, design or application. The 
Company was the first in India to start manufacture of Premium 
Range of Plastic Moulded Furniture using new technologies and 
materials such as Gas Injection Mouding along with Glass Filled 
Polyproplene. This has helped the Company in creating its own 
brand image which is associated with Premium Quality Plastic 
Furniture. With addition of Blow Moulding & Roto Moulding 
technology, the company now is perhaps the only Company 
in Plastic Furniture business in India to offer furniture made 
with three different processes. 
The Company’s range of Blow Moulded Tables has been well 
appreciated by various customers for its quality. The sales of 
these products grew by 8% by numbers in this segment. The 
Company now has 19 products in this segment and plans to 
introduce more products in the current year .The Company is 
optimistic about future growth from this segment and would 
look forward to expand its capacity for achieving economies of 
scale. The export potential of this segment is yet to be realized. 
However, the Company is hopeful of making breakthrough in 
exports in coming years. With the overall outlook of various 
countries looking to establish alternate source to China, the 
Company is optimistic of making the breakthrough. 
The Company started manufacture of Roto Moulded Furniture 
in Feb 2020 and could supply only small quantity of this range 
is this year. The Company introduced three models and the 
market feedback for these is encouraging. The Company plans 
to increase its product range as well as start manufacture of 
items in large demand at more locations for easy service and 
reducing the freight cost involved in this product line. 
The Company introduced total of seventeen new furniture 
models during the year. All the new models introduced during 
the year were well appreciated and the Company hopes to 
get good growth from its new introductions. The Company 
has already committed investments on new furniture moulds 
which will go into production by second half of the year and 
help in growth of business during the year.
The Company’s furniture is currently available to its customers 
through nationwide network of 13,000 retailers. The Company 
plans to add another 1500 retailers during the year. The 
Company believes that in the ensuing year, Customers will 
prefer to buy the furniture from nearest stores and avoid travel 
which will help in growth of Company’s business due to its 
vast network of retailers all across the country. The Company 
increased its strength of channel partners from 1045 to 1113 
nos. and continues to increase its presence in unrepresented 
areas. 
The Company has appointed dedicated channel partners for E 
commerce portals and plans to scale up the operations in the 
current year. The Company believes that the sales of furniture 
will partly shift from brick & mortar stores to online and thus 
is gearing up to service such sales through dedicated channel 
partners dealing in E commerce. 
The Company continues to focus on developing its export 
market and has received good acceptance by various 
customers. The Company participated in three international 
furniture exhibitions in the year. The initiative enabled it to 
showcase its wide range of furniture in various International 
markets and make them aware about the quality & range of 
products manufactured by the Company. 
The Company is in dialogue with large number of leading 
retailers in USA, Europe, UK, Japan and hope to start business 
with many of them once the COVID 19 situation is overcome. 
The Company has already completed the initial vendor 
assessment process and its Lalru Unit has cleared the SMETA 
audit required for Social Compliance by most of the Global 
large retailers.
4.3 INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
4.3.1 INDUSTRIAL COMPONENTS
After the encouraging first half of FY18-19, from Nov. 18 
onwards, unexpected slump in the demand for both Auto and 
Consumer Durables was witnessed and it lasted through Q4 
of FY18-19. However, country wide sentiment was indicating 
that there would be pick up post General Elections due in 
April-May’19. Based on this expectation, the Division planned 
6% to 8% growth during FY19-20 over FY18-19, both in 
Auto and Appliances sector. However, slow down continued 
without expected recovery in both the segments even after 
General Elections. Slowdown in Auto sector intensified due to 
various Statutory changes in Vehicle Safety Norms, impending 
BSVI implementation resulting in cautious buying, difficulties 
in availing Vehicle loans resulting from NBFC crises, Weak 
Economic sentiments due to various Global and Domestic 
factors. In case of CVs where the company has larger presence as 
TIER 1 supplier, in addition to the above stated factors, demand 
took beating due to Statutory Axle load increase and drastically 
improved Vehicle Turnaround Time ( TAT), a healthy effect of 
GST, allowing seamless Vehicle Movement across the country.
On a larger base of FY 18-19 Sales attained because of nonrecurring sizable order from ECIL for EVM sub-assemblies and 
First Quarter revenue from the hived off Khushkhera plant 
coupled with the combination of factors as stated above, the 
Division had to encounter de-growth of 27% and excluding 
these two effects, the de-growth has been about 16%. 
Ghiloth plant set up exclusively for one of the major Appliances 
manufacturer completed its first full year of operations. This 
business was shifted from Noida plant. Noida and Ghiloth 
plants put together achieved revenue growth of about 
10%. Noida plant stabilized Cooler production for one 
of its customers with improved Productivity, Quality and 
Operational efficiency. One of the Company’s major customer 
in Appliances sector from Noida plant was discontinued by 
the company as it was showing signs of bankruptcy and that’s 
what happened eventually. Although, this was a necessary 
step, obviously, it affected revenue of the plant for the year 
under review. The WCE Program which was launched for both 
Noida and Ghiloth plants, has started showing improvements 
and will be more visible in the years to come.
Division had one rented premises in Greater Noida which had 
been part of Noida Plant administratively. Company undertook 
a major Re-Engineering Exercise codenamed Noida Integration 
Project. Noida plant was completely relayed out with the aim 
to bring operations of both these plants at single location. This 
resulted in better space utilization, effective management 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
34
controls, improved layout, clean environment and effective 
cost management. The Company expects good results of this 
action in the future.
Since Commercial vehicle segment was severely hit and 
Talegaon plant having more dependence on Commercial 
vehicles, it suffered on revenues considerably. Company’s 
major customer for Pondy plant which manufactures Washing 
machines, encountered de-growth in the segment where 
Company’s presence is sizable. This impacted company’s 
revenue resulting in de-growth of the Division in Puducherry 
plant. Company has undertaken exercise of Business 
Rationalization with this customer which should mitigate risk 
of overdependence on one segment and improve revenues in 
future. Company received “Excellent Business Partner Award” 
from this customer, a unique recognition given for long and 
sustained mutual business association.
Chennai plant has customer base both for Appliance and 
Automotive. One of the major customers stopped manufacturing 
TVs in India and contracted out AC manufacturing to third 
party. These actions from the said customer had adverse 
impact on the revenue of Chennai plant. However, company 
has acquired new businesses from existing customers and 
added couple of new customers. It should bring positive results 
during current and future years. The expansion of the plant 
undertaken last year has been completed in March, 20 and 
became operational. 
Durgapur plant is mainly depending on Auto sector. Due 
to sluggish demand from Auto sector throughout the year, 
Division’s business had to suffer de-growth in the revenue.
There was a considerable effect on supply chain of some of our 
major customers due to non-availability of few critical materials 
from China which was shut down to contain the spread of 
Covid 19 during February’20 and March’20. Overall revenue of 
the division adversely affected during last quarter due to wide 
spread slump in the economy, supply failures from China and 
nearly half of March month shut due to Covid 19 lock down.
Appropriate steps have been taken in all plants to follow right 
protocols and Operational SOPs including Norms for Social 
Distancing, Personal Hygiene, Sanitization, Environmental 
aspects etc. to contain spread of Covid19. Health, Safety and 
Hygiene has been taken on top of agenda.
Company has taken drive to rationalize and reorient the 
machine capacities at its various locations to align it with the 
changed Product- Mix. While doing so, the new machines 
and equipment being added are equipped with the latest 
Technology, Energy efficient, designed for Good repeatability 
for better quality and improved productivity. Wherever feasible 
and cost-effective, Automation is being considered to for 
better productivity and quality. All these initiatives will ensure 
enhanced Quality, Productivity, Safety, Energy conservation 
and Cost Optimization. It is helping the Company to negate 
the impact of inflation due to various manufacturing cost 
increases and cost reductions required to be given year on 
year to customers to remain competitive. The various such 
initiatives of the Company would support Environment and 
help Go Green. Continuous focus on employee engagement 
initiatives is helping company to enhance its Human Capital. 
Overall rating of the company by its customers meets or exceeds 
their expectations. Company is considered a highly dependable 
and valuable supplier. The Journey towards excellence is being 
cultivated as a culture and will be continuous. 
4.3.2 Material Handling Products 
The footprints of Indian economy right at the beginning of the 
financial year were not encouraging. Most of the sectors of 
economy started the new year with subdued activities. The 
affect was most pronounced in Automobile, Engineering, and 
Consumer durables, Automobiles was also severely affected 
due to some statutory guidelines from Govt. and NBFC 
financial crisis.
If the Company divides the year in two halves, the first half has 
been good for material handling products division. Company’s 
MH Division has been growing in both volumes and revenue 
fighting against odds more so when most of the driving sectors 
for material handling division were not performing well.
The second half of the year has been disappointing for MHD. 
The effect appeared starting from 3rd quarter for most of the 
product range, The fourth quarter was even worse with the 
onset of COVID-19 and lockdown in March. Consequently, 
MHD ended year with a negative of 4% in volume and a 
negative of 7% in revenue. Industrial crates which are primarily 
demanded from sectors like auto, engineering, appliances, 
FMCG and retail have 2% negative in volume and 8% negative 
in revenue. The same has been with pallets which are used 
for warehousing, storage in industrial, retail and FMCG have 
shown a degrowth of around 4% in volume and 8% in revenue. 
Among the gloom, some positive strings have also flared for 
the company as few segments outshined and shown positive 
results. The Fruit and Vegetable (F&V) and Fisheries crates 
segment, even when The Company serves only the quality 
conscious customers and refrain from selling to mass markets 
and mandis abuzzed with recycled crates, have performed well 
F&V crates have particularly been impressive with an increase 
of 1.5 lakhs more units and registered a growth of around 
15% over last year. This performance was also supported by 
introduction of new models.
Dairy Crates have also performed reasonably well during the 
year and new model in Dairy crates have shown promise for 
a bigger market volume this year. 
The Roto segment has been poor both in crates, dustbins and 
pallets but the injection moulded dustbins models have shown 
positive trends and promise for good results in this year.
The bottle crates sold to other than major players have also 
been on the positive side over the last year.
There has been a massive disruption in majority of sectors i.e. 
Engineering, Appliances, Automobiles which were catered by 
the Company have lost ground in volumes. More importantly, 
the polymer prices have fallen with almost 15% in prices on 
average over the last year. 
Your company is still confident of good surge in business this 
year in fisheries, F&V, retail and FMCG segments even when we 
feel that the first quarter in all possibilities would be consumed 
by the lockdown with less activity.
The division has planned to open two new fabrication facilities 
for speedy and timely service to the customers requiring 
customised crates in both South and North regions. New 
injection moulded dustbins models and few new crates models 
have also been planned for introduction.
The Management is focussed to increase the customer coverage 
specially in East and North east, Maharasthra and Southern 
India, by filling up the vacancies and further strengthening 
ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
35
network of channel partners by adding new partners in some 
less or unrepresented areas. 
4.3.3Composite LPG Cylinder
Company revisited the design and processes with the assistance 
from its consultant in The Czech Republic to overcome the 
minor technical hick ups going unnoticed in the process and 
have updated component design and improved the processes 
following Poka-yoke system not only to have better product 
but also to optimize the costs.
The Company’s composite cylinders are also exported to 
Carribean country and its’ clients in Maldives and Somalia have 
appreciated the quality of cylinders and have placed repeat 
orders. Company’s long term customer from Korea continued 
purchasing the cylinders and is making arrangements with retail 
companies for a bigger engagement.
The Company is following up with Government and local Oil 
Companies to introduce composite LPG cylinders in domestic 
market. 
The Company addressed and settled the issues regarding the 
complaints of Composite cylinders from Bangladesh during 
the financial year. Newly designed product samples sent to 
customer at Bangladesh have been successfully tested and 
meets the required parameters. Company expects good 
business volume from this customer during the current year.
4.4 PACKAGING PRODUCTS
4.4.1 PACKAGING FILMS
Performance Films Division (PFD)
The Performance Films Division has recorded 15% growth in 
Volume and about 13% growth in Value.
The Total sale achieved was 7722 MT as against 6703 MT in 
the last year.
Last year’s expansion in capacity at the Company’s existing 
location in Khopoli has supported to overcome the de growth. 
The Company’s CI Flexographic Printing press has given more 
opportunity for the division in several Segments which has led 
to increase sales as well. Both the new equipment’s helped 
Company to deliver better quality of products and to improve 
its lead times due to the increase in flexibility of production 
capabilities. 
The addition of lamination unit, has enabled the Division to 
grow in many untapped markets/Industry/Applications. This 
also helped the Company in creating value added products 
to its portfolio. 
Exports have also grown at 1451 tons as against 1316 tons in 
the previous year. 
There has been some additional demand from Essential Product 
like Dairy Industry & Edible OIL which is the major Driver of 
Growth. The Company remains optimistic in the current year. 
Even though the Lock down will have some impact on overall 
business in first quarter of this year. However, the customer 
base will be sustained and growing due to Company’s quality, 
commitment and service. 
The Company expects to achieve volume and value growth in 
this business in the current year due to increase in customer 
base in India and abroad. This has been made possible due 
to increase in the production capacity with improved product 
mix. 
4.4.2 Protective packaging division (PPD) 
PPD has recorded de-growth of about 4% in value and 1% in 
volume during the year under review. The total sale achieved 
25,660 MT against 26,018 MT of last year. Due to outbreak 
of Covid-19 and lockdown, Sale in Feb and March affected. 
The last week of March was a total wash out. If all was ok, we 
would have achieved sale as per last year in value with 3% 
Growth in volume.
Jadcherla unit is now ready to start its commercial production 
immediately after the opening up post Covid 19 with an 
EPE plant saleable capacity of 3200 MTPA and ABF saleable 
capacity of 1440 MTPA. Also the division has installed 
conversion equipment for processing of crosslink foam blocks 
and other fabrication equipment to ensure quick services to 
the local customers. In view of the present scenario, we expect 
sales to stabilize in second quarter, but would take time to 
utilize full capacity. 
Hosur unit with all its new facilities and expansions, is now 
fully stabilized for smooth operations with projected saleable 
capacities The Division is working on major cost reduction, 
utilization of its cross linked scrap & development of several 
new products. As a result the Company expects an impetus 
to the growth of cross linked foams across the country. It shall 
consider expansions of these products once the Company 
achieves over 90% utilisation. The Company expects to achieve 
this by the last quarter of this financial year.
Special initiative was taken during the year for energy 
conservation by using alternate source of power. Major cost 
savings have been achieved during the year by using roof top 
solar panels, windmills & also buying alternate energy at all 
it’s manufacturing locations. 
Division is expecting good saving in fuel cost after installation 
of dry steam IBR boiler at Hosur unit as against conventional 
small multiple non IBR boilers. By observing the cost benefits, 
division is considering now to replace the old non IBR boiler 
at Malanpur unit & shall implement the same soon.
Protection to environment against plastic wastes is high priority 
for the division. In house R&D team and the technical experts 
are working to develop new technology for converting the 
plastic wastes to application oriented products.
Increase in productivity from the existing equipments through 
technological upgradation is another focused area for the 
division in the coming year.
All units are working for reduction of product costs and other 
expenditure to build more competitiveness in the market to 
counter local & unorganised players.
PACKAGING –
Packaging vertical had a degrowth 8% in value and 7.1% in 
volume as against last year.
While absolute volume of sheets & rolls did not show a decline, 
tonnage growth was negative in view of density reduction 
achieved over the last year.
The division has decided to modify the existing single screw 
extruder at Urse with newly developed technology to produce 
low density EPE foam which is in demand in West zone. Due 
to Covid-19 delay, the Company expects this to be in place 
by the end of second quarter.
The demand of EVA based skin friendly non-toxic certified 
grade Yoga mat is now increasing against Chinese NBR PVC 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
36
Foam Yoga mat. In-house technical team has designed and 
developed several types of mats to meet the requirement of 
different segments.
The production of Interlock mat started two years ago, Initially 
it was difficult to compete against Chinese products. R&D team 
has successfully developed multiple variants of interlock mats for 
sports and general purpose use. Kabaddi Association of India has 
already started using this product and the division is expecting 
good business growth during the coming year. The technical team 
is working for further cost reduction to remain competitive.
CIVIL
Civil business degrowth was 11.4% in value and 9.8% in 
volume in current year. 
BIS certification has helped to capture business in major 
government projects during the year. Dura floor protector 
which was developed by the division by using Silpaulin and EPE 
foam, is growing and expecting further growth in the coming 
year. In many projects, low cost inferior quality products are 
used in expansion joints at cheaper prices. The Company’s 
technical team has developed low cost products to match 
the lower end product of competitors, with better properties. 
Production of new range of floor protection mat has been 
started at Hosur. It is expected to have good business growth 
from this new product in different applications. 
INSULATION
Insulation business has grown by 8.8% value and 13.6% 
volume in the current year. The division has initiated several 
technological steps during the year to overcome market 
competition by introducing low density certified products 
for Insulation application. The division has started supplying 
special grade chemically cross link foam to Railway Coach 
factory, which was developed last year as an import substitute. 
The division has expanded its reach to many small towns. Once 
things open up, the Company expects better business in the 
coming year.
Acoustic panel which was developed last year by using XLPE 
waste is slowly picking up in sales. This will help in reduced 
sale of cross linked scrap. 
Commercial production of NBR PVC Foam product which was 
started at Malanpur unit is growing well due to superior quality 
against other competitors. By modifying the existing design of 
the equipment, higher productivity of sheet and tube has been 
successfully achieved. The compounding cost has significantly 
dropped by using indigenous materials. It is expected to have 
good business growth during the coming year. 
EXPORTS
From r 770 lakhs Export last year, Division achieved an 
export sale of r 1229 lakhs. The Company has developed & 
are developing several new products for the export market. 
The Company believes that many buyers will reduce their 
dependence on China, providing good opportunity for the 
division. The Company expects significant growth in exports 
during 2020-21.
TECHNOLOGY
Inhouse technical team has designed and developed new 
generation single screw extruder of 100 kgs/hr on pilot scale 
which was successfully installed at Hosur and commercial 
production started with better foam quality and higher 
productivity with low density, compared to extruders making 
similar product. Division has decided to modify all its old single 
screw extruders by using this new technology thereby reducing 
density & costs. The division has been given a National award 
by the Ministry of Chemicals & Petrochemicals, for this 
innovation in the category of Innovation in Polymer processing 
machinery & equipments. Indeed a proud moment for the 
divison & the company. Low cost ABF plant was developed by 
it’s technical team through a Chinese vendor by using European 
technology at low cost for Jadcherla unit.
COST REDUCTION
The Company has shifted to indigenous Chemicals/Additives 
during the last quarter of the year, which will offset not only 
effect of Rupee depreciation but will also reduce lead time 
and will reduce compounding and inventory cost. 
Post Covid-19, the division has made a revised plan of further 
cost reduction & increased introduction of new products to 
improve profitability
4.4.3 CROSS LAMINATED FILM
The Business of Cross Laminated Film & Products had a degrowth of 13.11% in volume terms mainly due to significantly 
lower business in the month of March 2020. The nationwide 
lockdown has completely disrupted the demand supply chain.
Company’s plants have become operational after a gap of over 
one month. The Government granted partial relaxation from 
lockdown w.e.f. 20th April 2020. However running plant at 
full capacity is still a distant reality due to paucity of workers 
as several workers have left the work place due to prolonged 
lockdown. 
The main product of the company i.e tarpaulin is seasonal 
in nature with peak season between March to June. The 
disruption in demand supply chain with movement restrictions 
in place due to COVID-19 pandemic has affected business 
in April 2020. This will have some adverse impact on the 
Company’s business in the first quarter. 
The good news is that the demand for company’s product has 
started picking up and is expected to improve further once 
more economic activities are opened during lockdown. The 
Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted a 
normal monsoon in the year 2020 spelling some cheer to the 
agricultural sector amid the COVID-19 lockdown. Agriculture 
is expected to be the bright spot for the country in the year 
2020-21 which augurs well for the Company’s business as the 
Company’s product finds uses in many agriculture applications. 
The share of fabricated products is increasing steadily. The 
Company has made improvements in the existing fabricated 
products based on the feedback received from the customers 
and also developed new fabricated products which after 
successful trials will be launched during the current year. 
The products developed by laminating the XF film with other 
substrates has met with a great success in U.K.. The Company 
plans to market these laminated products in other world 
markets and in local market. The Company strongly believes 
that these fabricated / laminated products have great future 
in years to come. 
The Company’s tarpaulins made of own generated unusable 
Reprocess Granules meant to target the low cost Tarpaulin 
segment has had the desired results. The company has not sold 
a single kg of reprocess granule during the year under review 
speaks volumes of the interest this product has generated in 
the market. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
37
The Company during the year has successfully installed balancing 
equipment to substantially increase the manufacturing capacity 
of Cross Line Bonded Film. With additional capacity in place 
the company can now offer the entire volume of its products 
in Cross Line Bonded Film. Besides being superior in quality 
this film enables the domestic/global market to distinguish the 
Company’s products from look alike products of competitors. 
This product enjoys patent protection. 
The Company is working intensively to increase its’ volume 
in world market. There is repeat demand for its products for 
several newer applications in different world markets. The 
Company expects its’ business to grow in world market in the 
years to come.
5. FINANCE
1. A brief on borrowing levels and finance cost is given below :
1.1 Summary
Particulars Measure F.Y.
2019-20
F.Y.
2018-19
Net borrowing level at the 
end of the year
r In 
crores
216.42 160.94
Average Monthly 
Borrowings
r in 
crores
205.02 265.58
Interest & finance charges 
(after removing the first 
time effect of IND AS116)
r In 
crores
16.13 26.00
Average cost of borrowings 
at the end of the year
% p. a 8.35 8.23
Financial cost as a % of 
Turnover
% 0.29 0.40
Total Net Debt : Equity Ratio 0.10 0.08
1.2 With the slowdown in the economy during the Calendar year 
2019 RBI reduced the Key policy rates by 135 bps in five 
successive rate cuts starting from February, 2019. From time 
to time RBI has also infused liquidity in the system to boost 
the economy. The Repo rate which was at 6.50% at the start 
of the Calendar Year was reduced to 5.15% by the end of 
the Calendar year. Thereafter at the end of March 2020 due 
to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic related lockdowns & 
social distancing, all the economic activities were standstill 
& due to rising probability of recessionary trend in Global & 
Indian Economy, RBI has reduced repo rates by 75 bps at one 
stretch & also undertaken other aggressive measures to mitigate 
negative effect of virus, revive growth & to preserve financial 
stability. In line with the overall lower interest rate regime and 
with better working capital management, Company reduced 
its Finance cost to 0.29% of its Turnover at the end of the year 
vis a vis 0.40% of Turnover at the end of 31st March 2019.
1.3 Owing to the extra ordinary & unprecedented situation arising 
out of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic and national 
lockdown, operations at all the units of the company were 
suspended barring supplies of packaging material and piping 
products for essential commodities and agriculture with 
effect from 20th March 2020. Company had taken conscious 
decision and availed short term borrowings to the tune of r 270 
crores by way of Working Capital Demand Loans (WCDL) with 
a view to meet all its committed obligations in normal course in 
timely manner & to create war chest to meet any eventuality.
2. Working Capital Borrowing
2.1. Foreign Currency Borrowing
During the year under review, Company continued to avail 
Buyer’s credit (BC) funding, directly from overseas lenders at 
competitive rates. Total cumulative BCs availed during the F.Y. 
2019-20, amounted to $ 35.12 Mill.
Between July, 2019 to August, 2019 the rupee depreciated by 
around 3.50% vis-à-vis dollar & thereafter it remained steady at 
depreciated level. In the beginning of the Calendar Year 2020 
after marginal appreciation, it again depreciated by around 5 
% by end of March 2020.
As per the past trend, the company has kept judicious & 
consistent hedging policy to mitigate risk arising out of foreign 
currency fluctuation. 
2.2. Commercial Papers
During the year under review, the Company placed cost 
effective Commercial Papers (CPs) in the market to the tune 
of r 445 Crs. to avail low cost INR funding. 
2.3. Dealers’ financing & Vendor Management
The Dealers’ finance facilities extended to the several Channel 
Partners of the Company has progressed well with more & 
more Channel Partners are getting enrolled on the Channel 
Finance Scheme. Considering the performance and peak 
season requirements, our banking partners are willing to extend 
additional facilities to meet seasonal requirements and also 
extending credit terms to them to tide over crises arisen due 
to pandemic Covid-19.
2.4 The company continues to negotiate favourable credit terms 
with its bankers as well as vendors for effectively managing its 
working capital requirements at optimum cost.
3. Term Debt :
During the year under review, the Company continued to 
remain debt free except for its Working capital facilities.
4. CRISIL Rating
During the year under review, a) the Rating for Company’s 
Short term bank facilities continued to enjoy “CRISIL A1+” 
rating by CRISIL (which is the highest rating for the Short term 
instruments). And b) Company continued to enjoy Rating for 
Long Term Bank facilities at “CRISIL AA Stable Outlook”.
5. Capital Expenditure
5.1. Considering optimistic business growth potential, the Company 
has incurred Capital Expenditure (Capex) of r 241 crores, 
during the year under review. The highlights of the Capex 
incurred are as follows.
a) Putting another Unit at Pondy new site to increase Bath 
fitting capacity
b) Expanding Roto Moulding Capacity at Jadcherla
c) Adding several varieties of Injection Moulding and Blow 
moulded furniture in the Company’s range of furniture
d) Installing additional equipment to increase production of 
XL Bonded XF film at Its’ Silvassa and Get Muvala Units.
e) To add end of the line fabrication machines for 
performance packaging films.
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
38
f) To install balancing machines in Protective Packaging 
Division 
g) To increase capacity at Gadegaon and replace certain 
old machines at Lalru plant and to invest in moulds for 
increased product range in Material Handling Products 
h) To expand capacities in Industrial Product Division at 
Giloth and Chennai moulding unit 
Apart from above, Company also made capex commitment 
for about r 182 Crs and the same shall go into production/
use during the course of current year which primarily includes 
capex for:
(a) Putting Moulding shop to make pipe fittings at Kharagpur 
complex
(b) Establishing capacity to manufacture PVC Pipe System/
HDPE Fittings/CPVC Pipe System/PEX Piping system at 
Jadcherla
(c) Adding varieties of injection Moulded, Blow moulded 
and Roto moulded furniture in the Company’s range of 
furniture
5.2. During the current year i.e. 2020-21, the Company envisages 
further Capex in the range of about r 150 to 200 crores in the 
existing locations and new projects, mainly on the following.
a) To increase PVC Pipe capacity at Kanpur, Gadegaon and 
Kharagpur.
b) To increase HDPE Pipe capacity at Malanpur, Gadegaon 
and Kharagpur.
c) To increase DWC Pipe capacity at Kharagpur.
d) To increase CPVC Pipe capacity at Malanpur and 
Kharagpur.
e) Adding several capacities of Water Tank moulds and 
additional Roto Moulding machines.
5.3 New Projects:
a) Orissa State: The Company has negotiated purchase of 
30 acre land to put up Plastic Piping complex at Orissa. 
Due to lockdown the legal possession of the land has 
been delayed. The Company will initiate actions to put 
the complex after the possession of the Land.
b) The drawings of various equipment to put up Cross Plastic 
Film project at Get Muvala are under preparation in 
Romania and Switzerland. Due to Covid-19 lockdown the 
process is taking more time to finalise the drawings. The 
Company will move expeditiously after working drawings 
are frozen to put up the Plant.
The company has realized r 25.60 Crores from sale of its 
remaining block (one unit) consisting of 12540 sq fts of its 
commercial premises of Supreme Chambers. Consequent 
to the above sale, Inventory of the Commercial Premises has 
become NIL. 
With the sale of all the premises from time to time over the 
years the company has realized in excess of r 428 Crs. against 
the project investment of about r 150 Crs. which helped the 
Company to strengthen its cash flow for better use in its core 
business.
6. At the Closure of the Financial Year 2019-2020, the company 
has divested its 20.67% Equity stake in its joint venture 
company viz Kumi Supreme India Pvt Ltd to Kumi (Thailand), 
nominees of Kumi Kasei Co Ltd, Japan for an aggregate 
consideration of r 24.32 Crs. as per the mutual understanding 
arrived at with the majority partner viz. Kumi Kasei Japan. 
In view of unprecedented & difficult times the company’s 
focus shall remain on all critical areas of cost control and cost 
reduction thereof and the finance cost being one of them shall 
always be a focal point for constant optimization. 
6. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The Company has adequate internal audit and control systems. 
Internal auditors comprising of professional firms of Chartered 
Accountants have been entrusted the job to conduct regular 
internal audits and risk based audits at all units/ locations and 
report to the management the lapses, if any. Both internal 
auditors and statutory auditors independently evaluate the 
adequacy of internal control system. Based on the audit 
observations and suggestions, follow up, remedial measures 
are being taken including review and increase in the scope of 
coverage, if necessary. The Audit Committee of Directors, in 
its periodical meetings, review the adequacy of internal control 
systems and procedures and suggest areas of improvements.
The Company has undertaken a detailed exercise to revisit 
its control systems in technical and other non financial 
areas to align them properly with Management Information 
Systems (MIS) to make MIS more efficient and result oriented. 
Information technology base created by the Company over 
the period is providing a very useful helping hand in the 
process. Needless to mention, that ensuring maintenance of 
proper accounting records, safeguarding assets against loss and 
misappropriation, compliance of applicable laws, rules and 
regulations and providing reasonable assurance against fraud 
and errors will continue to remain central point of the entire 
control systems.
7. HUMAN RESOURCES
Human resource is considered as key to the future growth 
strategy of the Company and looks upon to focus its efforts 
to further align human resource policies, processes and 
initiatives to meet its business needs. In order to focus on 
keeping employees abreast of technological and technical 
developments, the Company provides opportunity for training 
and learning within the country and abroad. Company is also 
developing its infrastructure and facilities by which many 
employees could work from home. This has helped the 
Company to continue to provide services to all its stakeholders 
during countrywide lockdown due to pandemic COVID 19. 
Industrial relations at all the units and locations are cordial. 
Cautionary Statement
Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis 
describing the Company’s objectives, expectations or 
predictions may be forward looking within the meaning of 
applicable securities, laws and regulations. Actual results 
may differ materially from those expressed in the statement. 
Important factors that would influence the Company’s 
operations include cost of raw materials, tax laws, interest and 
power cost and economic developments particularly in view 
of ongoing pandemic COVID 19 and such other factors within 
the country and the international economic and financial 
developments.