Management Discussion and Analysis
1. OVERVIEW
The year under review was the toughest in the history of the 
Company. It started with an extreme negative outlook. The 
Company had to keep operations of its 24 plants’ closed for 
most part of the month of April 2020 and could begin in a 
gradual manner from last week of April onwards complying 
the prescribed guidelines. 
In the last 10 days, just before the closing of the year, the 
business has again witnessed tough situation as Covid – 19 
second wave started affecting the general public with alarming 
speed. The situation has become further volatile due to steep 
increase in Polymer prices. The increase in prices of PVC was 
steepest. In the last 40 years, international prices of PVC have 
never reached to the levels seen in April 2021 especially in 
India, some other Latin American countries and Turkey.
The Company however has come out of these two extreme 
adverse situations with unparalleled performance where the 
profit of the Company was highest in its 79 years of operations. 
This was partly supported by more than R 200 crores inventory 
gain on account of raw material price increase which accrued 
in its operations for the year.
The Company’s focus remained to penetrate maximum Tehsils 
with larger base of retailers to have its goods reach to the 
customers with ease and in a most economical manner.
The business in most of the segments of the Company starting 
from June 2020 remained positive, barring in the month of July 
2020, where regional lock down in some parts of the Country 
affected smooth operations.
In spite of Covid-19 second wave, the Company is optimistic 
about further growth prospects. The country’s war against 
Covid-19 was strengthened with successful developments 
of vaccines by two local producers and more producers / 
suppliers may offer from India and abroad to implement 
massive vaccination programme undertaken by the country.
Even with temporary setback which the Company is 
experiencing in the month of April 2021, the Company has 
not reduced its Capex plan for the year 2021-22. In the current 
year, not only there will be brownfield expansion of capacities 
and new products at the existing plants but Company has also 
embarked on putting up three new greenfield plants in the 
states of Assam, Orissa and Tamilnadu during the current year.
2. PRODUCT GROUPS:
The product groups of the Company have been categorised as 
under:
Group Products
Plastics 
Piping 
System
uPVC Pipes, Injection Moulded PVC fittings 
and handmade fittings, Polypropylene Random 
Co-polymer pipe system, HDPE Pipe Systems, 
CPVC Pipes Systems, Inspection Chambers, 
manholes, Toilets Bath fittings, Roto moulded 
Tanks and Fittings and Solvents, Industrial 
Piping System, DWC Pe Pipe System and Fire 
Sprinkler System
Consumer 
products
Furniture 
Industrial 
Products
Industrial Components, Material handling 
System and Pallets - Roto moulded crates, 
pallets and garbage bins and Composite LPG 
Cylinders.
Packaging 
Products
Flexible packaging film products, Protective 
Packaging Products, Cross Laminated Film 
products.
PRODUCT GROUP WISE SHARE IN TURNOVER FOR 
THE LAST TWO YEARS (% OF VALUE)
 Plastics Piping 
System 65% Packaging 
Products 17%
Industrial 
Products 12% 
Consumer 
Products 6%
2020-21
 Plastics Piping 
System 63% Packaging 
Products 18%
Industrial 
Products 12% 
Consumer 
Products 7%
2019-20
The net turnover (including other income) of the Company 
for the year under review was R 6373 Crores (including 
R 122 Crores by way of trading in other related products) as 
against R 5530 Crores (including R 33 Crores by way of trading 
in other related products and R 26 crores from sale of Premises) 
during the previous year.
The Company has sold 4,09,109 tons of Plastic products as 
against 4,11,521 tons of Plastic products in the previous year, 
reflecting a nominal de-growth of 1% in product turnover by 
volume. 
The Company exported goods worth US$ 18.35 million as 
against US$ 18.29 million during the corresponding period 
of the previous year. Profit before interest, depreciation and 
exceptional items and taxes during the period under review 
have been at R 1300 Crores as against R 854 Crores during 
the previous year.
3. COMPANY’S STRENGTH AND GROWTH DRIVERS
3.1 Manufacturing Sites
The Company is operating from 25 manufacturing sites across 
12 states and Union Territories. The Company has initiated 
steps to put up two plastic products complex in the state of 
Orissa and Tamilnadu. The Company is also in the process to 
put up Plastic Pipe Systems manufacturing facility in the state 
of Assam.
3.2 Distribution network
The Company is committed to reach all the Tehsil areas of the 
Country. The Company is able to establish Dealer network 
in hundreds of Tehsils during the year, where Company’s 
products reach was either not there or was very poor. The 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 31
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-2021
Company’s active channels partner’s strength increased to 
4,034 Nos. in March 2021 from 3,567 Nos. at the end of 
March 2020.
The Covid-19 threw a dampener in Company’s reaching new 
world markets, as international exhibitions for it’s products 
were mostly non-existent.
The Company continues to open more depots and fabrication 
facilities to service it’s customers in a cost efficient manner. The 
Company now has 37 nos. of depots and fabrication facilities 
for its various products group.
3.3 Growth Drivers
The Company’s spend on TV advertisement in the epic 
serial Ramayana and Mahabharata and in IPL series telecast 
during the year strengthened it’s brand further. The Company 
extended financial help to 71,007 plumbers in the month of 
April / May 2020 to support their livelihood as their income 
streams were disrupted due to all India lockdown.
The Company has conducted large nos. of plumber meets with 
smaller groups to maintain appropriate discipline in Covid-19 
atmosphere by keeping safe distance to prevent infection while 
providing training to Plumbers.
The counterfeit products are being introduced by some 
unscrupulous players in a large way in it’s Pipe System, 
Cross Laminated film and Furniture product segments. The 
Company is quite active in seeking legal remedy to protect 
consumers from getting cheated. The Company has been 
successful in addressing this menace which however looks to 
be a continuous process.
3.4 Renewable Energy – a way forward
The Company is committed and has taken very focused 
approach to ensure that it uses more and more green and 
renewal energy and becomes more environment friendly. Initial 
steps had been taken earlier by installing captive generation 
solar plants at Gadegaon and Kharagpur plants. Further Rooftop 
Solar plants have been operational / under installation at all 
three units at Malanpur (M.P.), Hosur (Tamilnadu), Jadcherla 
(Telangana) and Gadegaon (Maharashtra) under OPEX Model.
The Company is also using wind and solar power through 
Captive consumer / open access mode. During the current 
year, the Company has committed R 35 Crores towards further 
installation of roof top solar plants at its various locations. The 
process of using more and more renewable energy shall be 
continued and the Company would continue to commit more 
capex every year for the same. The Company wishes to be 
carbon neutral at the earliest feasible and would pursue this 
vision in a focused manner by taking various effective steps 
and allocating more resources.
4. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
4.1 PLASTICS PIPING SYSTEMS
The Company continues its objective to grow Plastic Pipe 
System business. The Company is leader in this segment 
as it has the largest portfolio of products, which is being 
continuously increased, to offer more systems as required in 
the economy.
The Company during the year under review registered an 
overall revenue growth of about 18.5% in Plastic Piping System 
made from different plastic materials. Overall the Company 
sold 2,94,357 Tons of Pipe System compared to 3,00,772 Tons 
in the previous year.
In the previous year the business was affected severely due to 
complete lockdown in April 2020 and then gradual lifting of 
business in May 2020. The business was again affected in July 
2020 due to intermittent regional lockdowns. This has led to 
de-growth in volume for the full year.
PVC is the predominant raw material in the Company’s 
Plastic Pipe business. The prices of PVC were in 
downward trend from 18th March 2020 till first half of 
May 2020. Overall prices of PVC had gone down by 
R 13.50 / kg during that time. Thereafter beginning 18th May 
2020 prices of PVC started continuously increasing month after 
month upto April 2021. The prices have increased by approx. 
R.70 per kg upto 31st March 2021. This has affected country’s 
PVC consumption which has seed de-growth by around 16% 
in volume for the year. The Company also had a de-growth 
of around 3% in PVC piping system by volume. This steep 
increase in prices have led to de-growth in Agriculture Pipe 
segment. The increase in prices has also resulted in inventory 
gain of around R 180 crores for the full year in the Company’s 
working of Plastic Pipe system for the year.
The Government at the Centre and States has put the priority 
focus on Jal Jeevan Mission, Swatch Bharat Abhiyan, Sanitation 
and affordable houses to all and development of 100 smart 
cities on all India basis. NITI Aayog has declared following as 
growth drivers across the country:
	 •	 Government infrastructure spending
	 •	 Increasing construction
	 •	 Increasing Industrial production
	 •	 Rising demand from irrigation sector
	 •	 Replacement of aging Pipes
	 •	 Providing affordable house to all
	 •	 Heavy investment by Government in irrigation,
housing and sanitization 
Almost all the above growth drivers will boost the business of 
Plastic Piping System Division.
Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA) has created a major 
transformation the way housing construction for sale was in 
vogue in the Country. Many prominent Business Houses have 
made ambitious plans in this sector to grow geometrically with 
launch of their projects at multiple locations. For affordable 
housing segment Company has introduced customer friendly 
drainage system under the different brand name “Streamline” 
which meets all functional requirements of the affordable 
Housing sector. The growth tempo has now started and the 
Company expects good demand coming from the segment on 
continual basis.
The Company incurred Capex of R 225 crore in the year 
under reviewr in its various plants to build more capacities 
and increase range. Majority of them have been put to use.
The Company with objective of making its footprint for 
manufacturing at South Zone, for Plastic Piping Division, 
has got 50 acres of land allotted at Jadcherla-District 
Mahaboobnagar at Telangana. The production of PVC Pipes, 
cPVC Pipes, Water & Septic Tanks at this location has started. 
The machinery installation work for PEX system and Olefins 
moulded fittings are getting completed. The Company will 
launch these products at this location in July’21-Sep’21 quarter. 
The plant at Kharagpur is fully operational. The Company 
has started necessary civil and machine ordering work for 
further increasing the capacity of HDPE and DWC Pipes at 
Kharagpur plant to cater to increased demand. The Company 
has also started manufacturing of Moulded Fittings at Kharagpur 
to service Eastern market cost effectively. Further capacity 
expansion of Moulded Fittings has been planned and civil 
32 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-2021
work is complete. Plant will operate with full capacity by third 
quarter of 2021-22.
To meet the increasing demand of HDPE Pipes in North India, 
the Company has put up the capacity in Malanpur Unit No.3. 
The commercial production of the same including expansion 
has started in full swing. Overall HDPE Pipe business had a 
de-growth of 5% by volume during this year.
The Company now manufactures Roto Moulded Products 
at all four geographies of country viz., North, South, East 
and West to service these market cost effectively. The Roto 
Moulded Business of the company has grown by 57% during 
the year under review. The Company has put plans in place 
to substantially increase the business of Water Tanks through 
different market strategy of servicing directly to retailers from 
the respective factories at many places. The same will be 
further acted upon this year to get the desired results. The 
Company is also going to start manufacturing of Roto Products 
at new locations to increase market share by cost effective 
servicing. The Company also launched Premium range of 
Water Tanks branded as “Weather Shield” with added features 
such as superior thermal insulation etc., from three locations 
with good market response. 
The production of Double Wall Corrugated HDPE Pipes 
has started from Gadegaon and Kharagpur plants with BIS 
Certification. The Company is in process to educate various 
departments the benefits of putting in place a good quality 
DWC Pipes with latest technology and using virgin certified 
raw materials in terms of performance and longer life.
The Company introduced 154 nos. of variety of Injection 
Moulded Pipe fittings during 2020-21. They all have been well 
received in the market. The Company has plans of introducing 
further new items during the year as per system requirement. 
The total product portfolio in Plastic Pipe System has reached 
8774 nos., thus adding 460 products to the range of various 
Plastic Piping System compared to previous year.
The Company manufactures the cPVC Pipes at four of its 
manufacturing locations and cPVC Fittings at two of its 
manufacturing locations. The production of cPVC pipes 
at Jadcherla plant is fully functional with necessary BIS 
certification. The cPVC system sales during the year under 
review grew by 13% in value over previous year.
The Company plans to start three new manufacturing units 
at new locations viz. Guwahati (Assam), Cuttack (Odisha) 
and Perundurai (Tamil Nadu) for Plastic Pipes, Water Tanks, 
Septic Tanks etc.. At Guwahati the Company will start 
production in rented premises. It is a green field project and 
entire construction is done as per Company’s specification. 
Factory is likely to start in 3rd quarter of this year. At Cuttack 
the Company has already taken 29 acres of land and are in 
the process of further taking 4-5 acres of land which are plots 
in between and after taking these plots the land will become 
contiguous. The Company has already awarded the Civil and 
PEB contracts for same and construction is likely to start in 
May 2021 this year. The Company plans to start the first phase 
production at Cuttack unit by December’21. At Perundurai 
(Tamilnadu) the Company has taken 32 acres of land from 
SIPCOT at their fully developed Industrial State. Various 
contracts will be finalized shortly.
The Company has started manufacturing variety of Specialized 
Valves such as Butterfly Valves, Swing Check Valves, Ball type 
non-return Valve etc. These Valves have been designed for 
different applications like Industrial, Agriculture and Plumbing 
segment. They are made of specialized materials to ensure 
reliability & longer life and also to meet best of global standards. 
The Company has received positive response from the market. 
The Company intends to increase the range of Valves for 
Industrial usage in the current year.
The AQUAKRAFT Bath Fittings introduced by the Company 
is well established now including newly launched Chrome 
Plated range. There were 28 new items introduced during the 
year. The portfolio in Bath Fittings has reached to 124 items. 
Company continues to import some variety of Bath Fittings 
to service local market only for selected items. The Company 
plans to further complement the range during 2021-22 by 
introducing large varieties of products in Bath fittings. The 
Company also plans to enhance its manufacturing facility at 
Pondicherry at adjacent plot. The necessary work for same is 
likely to get completed by August’21. The Bath Fittings sales 
during the year under review grew by 58% over corresponding 
previous year.
The Company’s business to Export market during the year saw 
a de-growth of 44% in US $ terms more because of Corona 
Pandemic situation. The Company is continuously trying to 
boost its export business of Piping Systems in several markets.
The Division’s Value-Added Products sale was 39.7% 
compared to 38% in the previous year. The Company has also 
added further 154 direct business Channel partners during 
the year taking the total to 1368 Numbers. The Company 
continues to expand its reach by appointing new Distributors 
in areas where there is a gap in servicing. The Company has 
also started directly servicing retailers in selected markets for 
certain specific products of this division.
The Company has set up multiple Knowledge Centres across 
the country to train Plumbers and interact with Farmers, 
Architects and Plumbing consultants in respective zones. 
Currently, they are functioning at Gadegaon, Kochi, Malanpur 
and Kharagpur. Company expects to start such centres at more 
locations in near future alongside the new upcoming units. 
With the help of specialists the Company has embarked upon 
a new activity with nomenclature as “Plumbing Workshop” 
which is a full day session with Plumbers. Here the sharing is 
of latest Plumbing techniques along with applications of new 
products introduced by the Company in the recent past in 
the range. The markets have well appreciated it and there is 
pressure on Company to increase the Plumbing Workshop 
numbers substantially. The Company could organize only 61 
Plumbing workshops in the year 2020-21 owing to corona 
pandemic. Company plans to continue organizing the 
Plumbing Workshops based on situation during the year 2021-
22. There are now more than 90,000 Plumbers connected 
with the Company.
Company has started monitoring data of retailers who buy 
regularly through its distribution channels. An action plan to 
increase the number of such retailers on all India basis has 
been worked out and is being tracked. There are now more 
than 35,900 retailers connected with Piping System Business 
on regular basis.
FlameGuard CPVC pipe system made by the Company is 
considered as a very safe material for the use in fire sprinkler 
system in many parts of the country. 
Unlike plumbing system, a fire sprinkler system requires 
multiple approvals. In last financial year Karnataka issued 
approval order for the use of CPVC system in fire sprinkler 
system. This will help to promote the system in Karnataka 
market. The approvals are also obtained from Pune and KalyanDombivali Municipal Corporations. In Gujarat the use of the 
system has started in Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Mehsana towns.
Higher cost of the system is still a major concern. To bring down 
the cost company has started manufacturing the compound 
locally and supply of locally made fittings in India.
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 33
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-2021
The cost of the GI pipes for fire sprinkler has shown steep 
increase and the price gap between metal and CPVC system 
has reduced considerably. The system has limited success in a 
part of the country where MS pipe is still considered as material 
for installation in sprinkler system instead of GI pipe. The cost 
of the MS pipe is approximately 20-25% less compared to GI 
pipe system. 
The revision of the Indian standards for this system is in stage 
of finalisation and are expected to be published in this FY 
21-22. Real boost for the CPVC sprinkler system business is 
expected only after all standards are in place.
Product installation training for this system is a mandatory 
requirement before the actual installation starts to avoid 
hiccups. The Company provides the technical support by 
providing the Bill of Quantities (BOQ) from the sprinkler 
layout of the project. The Company also offers full support to 
the installer including the value engineering to reduce the cost 
without compromising the quality of the installation.
To support environment concern, Company is gearing up 
to meet with National Green Tribunal directive of phasing 
out Lead stabilizers from manufacturing of different types of 
uPVC Pipes. The Company has already started using lead free 
stabilisers in certain piping system. In other system a schedule 
has been drawn to phase out lead stabilisers.
4.2 CONSUMER PRODUCTS
4.2.1 FURNITURE
The Company’s furniture business declined by 5% in value 
terms over last year and 10% in volume terms due to lockdown 
which had a severe impact on the furniture business for 1st 
Quarter. The sales of 1st Quarter declined by a steep 70% over 
last year same period. However, the business started picking 
up from 2nd quarter and showed growth only from 3rd quarter 
onwards. 
Furniture demand was adversely affected due to pandemic 
restrictions as a large part of furniture sales come from Schools, 
Colleges, Hotels, Restaurants, Decorators, Marriage Places 
etc and this segment had a severe impact on their business 
due to the pandemic. Even the Govt buying for furniture was 
restricted as the focus was on healthcare and most of the funds 
were diverted for the same. Some of the key markets remained 
partially closed during the 2nd & 3rd quarter with restricted 
activities. However, the Company could achieve similar sales 
in 2nd quarter as last year same period and had good growth 
in 3rd & 4th quarter indicating signs of growth for 2021-22. 
The Company manufactures furniture made with all three 
different processes i.e Injection Moulding, Blow Moulding 
& Roto Moulding. The company has been manufacturing 
Injection Moulded furniture for 30 years and is a market leader 
in terms of it’s wide range & quality. Currently, the company 
manufactures injection moulded furniture at 6 locations 
viz Pondicherry (UT), Durgapur ( West Bengal), Guwahati 
(Assam), Gadegaon (Maharashtra), Lalru (Punjab) & Jadcherla 
(Telangana) to cater to customers effectively in different parts 
of the country. The Company’s Jadcherla plant is now well 
established and will be able to cater to adjoining markets cost 
efficiently. 
During the year, the Company’s sale of Blow Moulded table 
range grew by 24% over last year driven by good demand 
of compact folding tables for ‘Work From Home’ and sales 
through E-commerce. The company’s range of Blow Moulded 
tables is now well established and poised for good growth. The 
company’s plan for adding 2 new models in this segment was 
delayed due to pandemic and are likely to be introduced in 
first half of 2021-22. 
The Company had started manufacture of Roto Moulded 
Furniture in Feb 2020 and thereafter due to lockdown this 
segment could not be properly marketed as Kindergarten 
Schools which is one of the largest customers of the product 
launched were closed all through the year due to the 
pandemic. The Company plans to launch variety of models 
in Roto Moulded Furniture catering to different segments and 
is in the process of identifying suitable furniture which can be 
made through Roto Moulding. 
The Company introduced 5 new models during the year and 
all the models introduced were unique and cater to premium 
segment. Out of the 5 new models, 4 models were introduced 
with Gas Injection moulding technology using glass reinforced 
polymers. All these models are unique in their design, shape 
and usage. All the new models have been very well received 
and hope to give good growth in the coming year. The 
company plans to launch another 5 new models during the 
first half of 2021-22 which will help in overall growth in the 
coming year. 
The Company is committed to make available its furniture 
across India and is aggressively working towards increasing its 
retail penetration. The Company currently has 13,650 retailers 
selling its furniture who are serviced through our network of 
1,251 channel partners. The Company plans to add 1,400 
retail outlets during the year. The Company has identified some 
of its weak markets and has planned to intensify the marketing 
activity in those markets for improving its retail penetration and 
increasing the number of channel partners in these markets. 
The Company’s furniture range is sold on various e commerce 
portals through a few dedicated channel partners. It grew by 
100% during the year and the biggest spurt in sales was seen 
post lockdown when the markets were not fully functional and 
most of the people were operating from home. The consumer 
behaviour during the year showed a major shift towards online 
shopping and the company along with its channel partners 
geared up its infrastructure to meet the sudden rising demand. 
The company is focused on increasing its online presence and 
product offerings and sees this as a future growth driver. 
The company’s export business grew by 27% over last year in 
spite of very high shipping costs, low availability of containers 
and overall increase in freight costs . The growth was majorly 
attributed to acceptance of our product by a leading retailer 
from USA as well as middle east. The company will continue 
to focus on acquiring more customers and already in dialogue 
with some other leading retailers. However, due to very steep 
increase in sea freights and furniture being a voluminous item, 
the retailers are holding on to their decision for the time being.
The recent spate of increase in Covid cases across India 
amid restrictions and partial lockdowns have thrown up new 
challenges and the company will plan to overcome these 
challenges to ensure business growth in 21-22. 
4.3 INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
4.3.1 INDUSTRIAL COMPONENTS
The year 2020-21 started with already imposed country wide 
lockdown for containment of Covid-19 Pandemic. Obviously, 
there was no good news on economic front. The Division 
mainly caters to Appliance and Automotive sectors and both 
these sectors not being Priority or Essential category, were 
not given any relaxation, thereby, these sectors were badly 
affected during first quarter with negligible sales revenue. 
Although, from latter part of May’20, relaxations in lockdown 
were gradually eased in phased manner, it took long time 
to stabilize the Supply Chain of our customers, resulting in 
34 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-2021
massive de-growth of nearly 40% in both Value and Volume 
terms, during first half of the financial year.
Company decided to use this period to carry out all round 
improvements in the area of Productivity, Quality, Cost 
Reduction and People development. The No Production/Low 
Production period was utilized to educate team members 
on World Class Management Practices, Lean Manufacturing, 
Training on identified Skill Gaps, Soft Skills etc by series of 
Virtual Learning Programs, both by the Internal and External 
Faculties. Team members from both Staff and Associate 
category from various plants of the Division were involved in 
this exercise during this period. This training helped company 
to launch Cost Management Project, code named “Rainbow 
Project” for focused cost reduction. Strategy was made and its 
implementation started to develop new businesses to improve 
Capacity Utilization of certain underutilized Machines and 
Equipment. All these actions started yielding results when 
demand recovery started during second half of the year.
Recovery started during 3rd Quarter and got further 
accelerated in 4th Quarter. The recoveries in various sectors 
of Appliances like Washing Machines, Air Conditioners, 
Coolers and Refrigerators, segments where company has 
good presence, boosted the revenue during second half of the 
year. Demand recovery in Auto sector also helped Division 
for revenue growth with significant demand up stick in all the 
Segments of company’s presence like Passenger Vehicles, Two 
Wheelers and Commercial Vehicles. This resulted in overall 
growth for the year. The Division posted decent growth, both 
in Value and Volume term at over 11% and 6% respectively
during FY 20-21 over FY 19-20.
Until second half of March’21, the Outlook for FY 21-22 was 
looking bright with the momentum which had already picked 
up in Q4 of FY 20-21. Things have become uncertain within 
a month with huge surge in Covid caseload in the country 
necessitating to put across stringent curbs by various state 
Govts. As it stands in short term, the situation is not very clear 
on Business outlook. However, company feels that Business 
scenario remains bullish in medium and long term with 
business friendly policies by the Govt. Company has planned 
need based Capacity Augmentation to handle the projected 
increased demand going forward. The new machines being 
planned are with the latest Technology, Energy efficient, 
and Robust Design for Excellent Quality and Repeatability. 
Company is also working on cost efficient Automation.
Overall rating of the company by its Customers meets or 
exceeds their expectations and the company is considered as 
one the most reliable suppliers in its area of expertise by the 
customers. This has helped the Division to get extra business 
from its customers whenever other suppliers failed to supply. 
Division is continuously striving to excel in all Operational 
Parameters as its culture. It helps company to remain cost 
efficient in this fiercely competitive supply chain to OEM 
Customers.
4.3.2 Material Handling Products 
The financial year began amid chaos, confusion and 
uncertainty. 
The most contributing sectors to this Material Handling 
Division were not operational due to lock down. The division 
took an aggressive approach and started focusing on sectors 
which were open under essential commodities, retail, FMCG 
etc. The efforts made in the initial periods of lock down paid 
off immensely as a result, the Division has grown by 12% in 
volume and 10% in revenue terms. The most heartening things 
have been the performance in sectors where the division was 
not doing well in the past.
Analysing the performance with deeper insights, the Division 
has done exceptionally well in industrial sectors, like 
Automobile, Engineering Consumer durables in later half of 
the year when majority of our users increased their production 
to meet the pent up demand due to lock down. This resulted 
in improved volume of Industrial Crates and Injection Pallets. 
The demand for one time Cargo Pallets was all time high 
due to increased exports by our customers. The Company is 
confident this trend to continue in next year as well.
As expressed earlier, the focused efforts in F & V, e-commerce, 
retail and FMCG to counter the negative effects of lockdown 
paid handsomely to your company and the division has 
grown phenomenally in F & V sector by over 38% over last 
year. Company also benefited due to inability of small players 
to keep up their supplies in the market. Company hopes to 
maintain increased share in this segment in the next year. 
Company keeps strong focus on Fisheries Jumbo Crates. For 
last few years, Company has been aggressively working to gain 
the market shares in Fisheries Jumbo Crates. This year there 
has been a growth of 20%. Aggressive efforts will continue in 
this sector and for that the Company has started production 
of Jumbo Crates at it’s Jadcherla Unit in this year.
The Company’s business to Dairy segment continues to be in 
good shape but without growth. The Company’s crate quality 
is well established and appreciated by it’s customers. The 
Company is confident of a good growth next year. 
The Roto moulded Crates and Dustbins have seen decline 
this year. There has been good demand for Injection moulded 
Dustbins by Institutions and Corporates. Encouraged by this, 
Company has decided to introduce many new models of 
Dustbins in the next year. 
The Company also plans to introduce new models in Pallets, 
Crates and Ice boxes in Roto Moulding.
The Company explored opportunities for export of it’s Crates, 
Pallets, Silpack etc. The Company has achieved reasonable 
success and Company will aggressively pursue to further 
enhance exports in the current Year. 
The Company is reputed for its high quality products and 
timely supplies which helps it to retain it’s top customers. With 
increased demand, the Division is augmenting its production 
capacities by expansion at it’s Lalru and Gadegaon Units for 
Crates and at Gadegaon for pallets with new models.
The Company has not only retained its regular customers but 
has also been able to increase numbers of customers who are 
patronizing Company’s products regularly.
The Company has opened Fabrication facility at Chennai which 
is functional and serving the Automobile and Industrial sector 
customers in vicinity of Chennai timely and efficiently hoping 
to double its turnover next year. 
The Company was not able to augment it’s Channel Network 
and widen it’s reach this year but aims to add across India 
more than 10% new partners in existing Channel Network in 
the current year. 
4.3.3 Composite LPG Cylinder
The updated component design and improved plant processes 
following Poka-yoke system have yielded excellent results with 
no customer complaints received since Q3 2019. Repeated 
orders from multiple existing as well as new customers stood 
testimony to the excellent quality of the current product 
offering.
The Company continued its current business in Maldives and 
Somalia. New customer footprints have now been established 
in Western & Central Africa, Taiwan and the Caribbean islands. 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 35
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-2021
Composite Cylinders fall under direct sales category. New 
customers could not visit India because of restrictions in travel 
due to Covid-19 which hampered our sales volume. 
There was no progress in South Korean business as 
representatives of Korean Inspection Agency could not visit 
India. Our customer is setting up Testing Facility in Korea so 
that Korean Inspectors visit to India for quality checks will be 
obviated. Owing to the very high rejections of steel cylinders 
on account of human safety issues, marketing reports have 
forecasted a very bright future for composite LPG cylinders in 
Korea. The Company expects good business in current year 
after restrictions on travel eases.
The largest Indian Oil Marketing Company, M/s Indian Oil 
Corporation Limited, purchased small quantity of Composite 
Cylinders in March 2021 for marketing trials in 4 cities of 
India. This augurs well for the long awaited introduction of 
Composite Cylinders in Indian market. 
Owing to the various favourable developments, the overall 
prospects for Composite Cylinders in the current year are 
significantly more promising for the Company. 
4.4 PACKAGING PRODUCTS
4.4.1 PACKAGING FILMS
Performance Films Division (PFD)
The Performance Films Division has recorded 1.5% growth in 
Volume.
The Total sale achieved was 7,816 MT as against 7,722 MT in 
the last year.
The Domestic markets, had a growth of around 15%, 
particularly in the dairy & oil industry. The addition of New 
Value added Product in Dairy industry with the Lamination 
capability has enabled the Division to grow in many different 
applications. This also helped the Company in adding value 
added products to its portfolio. Continuous efforts to develop 
new products will help the division grow better this year
Exports have declined. Sales were only 1,343 tons as against 
1,451 tons in the previous year, mostly because of the Covid 
situation all over. Till travel becomes normal, there may not 
be good growth in exports. However the division is committed 
to work on building its export portfolio.
The customer base will be sustained and further enlarged well 
supported by Company’s quality, commitment and service. 
The Company remains optimistic in the current year in spite 
of challenging times and environment.
With available production capacity, improved product mix 
and focus on increasing customer base, the Company expects 
to achieve volume and value growth in this business in the 
current year. 
4.4.2 Protective packaging division (PPD) 
PPD Sales turnover was 3.2% lower at R 530 Crs in FY2020-21 
vs. R 547.50 Crs in FY2019-20. Volume was lower by 7.6%. 
COVID played a spoiler in QI & part QII of last year but a 
consolidated team effort across functions in Sales/Marketing 
& Manufacturing & improved demand, the division was able 
to recover some lost ground in QIII & QIV. 
Packaging
Packaging vertical had de-growth of 2.3% in value with business 
of R 395 Crs in current year as against R 404.50 Crs last year 
and had de-growth of 8% in volume. Several new packaging 
applications were developed, resulting in a smart increase of 
business in fabricated products with increase value addition. 
This augurs well in the coming year
Civil
Civil business had a growth of 4.4% in value with sales of 
R 56 Crs in current year as against R 53.70 Crs last year. Volume 
growth was 9% primarily due to export of civil products which 
clocked a growth of 140%. This is expected to further increase, 
as Company’s products find greater acceptance in several 
international markets.
Insulation
Insulation business had a de-growth of 19% value with Business 
of R 65.89 Crs this year against R 81.17 Crs. in the previous 
year.
CPD / Retail Division
Several new variants of yoga mats were introduced this year. 
Along with an ever increasing network, CPD achieved a sale 
R 10.57 Crs @160% growth for FY2020-21 as against 
R 4.08 Crs for FY2019-20. Company’s FITSPREE brand of 
Yoga mats and allied products have been well accepted. The 
division added 74 new distributors & 3020 new retailers in 
the year under review. Moreover, the division started doing 
business with CPC (Central Police Canteen) and also expect 
to get an initial breakthrough with Canteen Stores department 
(CSD) with 4 products approvals.
Exports
From R 12.29 Crs exports last year, Division achieved exports 
of R 18.88 Crs. The Division has developed & is developing 
several new products for the export market. With the 
development of several new products, the Company expects 
significant growth in exports during 2021-22.
MANUFACTURING, INNOVATION & TECHNOLOGY
Manufacturing 
Jadcherla: The plant started its commercial production from 
July’ 2020 onwards. Capacity utilisation has been 50% in the 
9 months till March 2021. The Company expects to touch 
70% utilisation in the current year & over 80% thereafter.
Hosur: With the unit now well established, it is working on 
further improving its operational efficiencies. Several new 
products, have been introduced by the unit. This will create 
new export opportunities, besides increasing domestic 
business. This will further improve capacity utilisation in 
the coming year. Fabrication facilities are being adequately 
upgraded to offer cost effective solutions & wider range of 
products to our customers
Urse-2 plant (fabrication facility) is certified with SEDEX 4 pillar. 
A prerequisite for some of the export products. The same was 
renewed last year. 
Innovation
The design of single screw foam extruder of 300 kg/hrs capacity 
in Urse plant has been modified with a unique screw design 
which has resulted in a 14.5% higher production capacity and 
also density reduction comparable with the latest version of 
Tandem Extruder which are installed at other units. 
Through re-engineering by R&D team, the productivity of all 
foam extruders and lamination plants has been increased over 
the original equipment design capacity. The overall product 
density has been reduced by 0.5 kg/m3 without deteriorating 
the quality standards, which has resulted to material savings. 
All the units are working further for the reduction of density. 
Through technological up-gradation, the existing crosslink 
extruded foam for Insulation application has been modified 
with reduced density matching the specified values as per BS 
476 for Class 1 and Class 0.
36 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-2021
By incorporating some design changes in the equipment of 
NBR plant of Malanpur, the unit has achieved 20% higher 
production in sheets, enabling it to be more competitive in 
the market. The unit is also working on improving output of 
tubes in a similar manner. 
TPE Yoga mats have been developed as an import substitute 
and has been well received in the market. These products 
would also create additional export opportunities. 
Technology
The Company has been granted a patent (Patent no. 347416, 
A Manufacturing process for block foam) for its innovative 
method of recycling the non-recyclable crosslink waste which, 
in-general, cannot be converted with conventional methods. 
This has enabled us to use our own cross linked wastage in 
larger quantities.
As a result, Crosslink block foam variants have been developed 
with 65% recycle material (cross linked waste). 
This product is well accepted for some heavy duty packaging 
applications. Now R&D team is working on developing several 
new products by using high volume of recycled material. These 
are expected to be launched this year. The Company hopes 
to achieve almost zero sale of it’s cross linked scrap in time to 
come.
The Hot-melt Glue Adhesive coating machine has been 
modified from its original design for the use of the multipurpose 
usage as required which has enhanced our ability to make 
multiple products with significant cost savings.
The technical team reengineered the 2 stage block foam line 
resulting in increased productivity of 17% & wastage reduction 
by 5%
New Initiatives
New variant of interlock mat for various sports applications has 
been developed at Hosur by using recycled material which has 
facilitated to counter Chinese imports. The Company expects 
good business in the coming year
The division is working hard to use alternate energy sources 
like the solar & wind. Significant savings of the power cost have 
been achieved at Hosur unit and the process will be replicated 
at other units also during the current year. 
While the new year has begun with Covid-19 raring its 
serpentine head again, The Company believes that, with all 
measures taken by the Company, this year would be a good 
one for the division.
4.4.3 CROSS LAMINATED FILM
The Business of Cross Laminated Film & Products recorded 
an impressive growth of 28.50% in volume terms despite 
challenging conditions posed by COVID-19 pandemic. The 
company lost sales of almost whole of April, 2020 due to 
lockdown but came back strongly to post remarkable growth 
in sales at the backdrop of robust demand for its products. The 
growth in demand was due to intensive market penetration 
by adding new channel partners and retailers, timely supplies, 
and introduction of additional varieties in made up products 
and boost in export volume.
The healthy order book at year end suggests the growth 
in demand will continue. To cater to the growing demand 
prospect, the Company has taken steps to expand the capacity 
from 27,000 MT to 30,000 MT per annum. The Company 
has already received some equipment and the balance will 
come during the current year. Increased capacity will be fully 
operational by January 2022.
As per weather forecast by SKYMET the monsoon in India is 
predicted to be normal with no La Nina scare. This will boost 
the demand for company’s products in the coming year.
The sale of made up products has grown during the year. 
The Company expects the demand for made up products 
to grow and so has put up a new fabrication facility at Halol 
exclusively for production of these products. The Company 
has soft launched Bio-floc fish tanks in eleven States. There 
were some technical issues in those tanks. They are now being 
addressed. The Company will relaunch this product only after 
addressing those technical issues which must add value to it’s 
customers.
The Company’s economy model of tarpaulin under the brand 
name “Supreme Sathi” is well established in the low cost 
Tarpaulin segment. The same is available from it’s generated 
reprocess granules.
The division’s exports posted a strong growth of 35% up from 
1183 MT to 1600 MT in the year. The thrust in coming year 
in exports will be mainly on developing newer applications, 
entering new markets and targeting chain stores and super 
markets for sale through their online portals. The Company 
expects the exports to grow further in the coming year. 
The intermittent lock down in the European countries 
completely derailed the preparation of drawings of various 
equipment required to put up the Cross Plastic Film project. 
The project will be taken in hand only after detailed drawings 
are ready. The implementation of that project is thus delayed.
5. FINANCE
1. A brief on borrowing levels and finance cost is given below :-
1.1 Summary
Particulars Measure F.Y. 
2020-21
F.Y. 
2019-20
Net borrowing level at the 
end of the year
R in crores Surplus 
of 
759.46 
216.42 
Average Monthly Borrowings R in crores Surplus 
of 
247.94 
205.02
Interest & finance charges R in crores 9.50 20.18
Average cost of borrowings 
at the end of the year
% p.a. N.A. 8.35
Financial cost as a % of 
Turnover
% p.a 0.15 0.36
Interest Cover No. of 
Times
 137 42
Total Net Debt : Equity Ratio – – 0.10
1.2 In March 2020, Company had taken a conscious decision 
to avail short term borrowings to the tune of R 270 crores 
by way of Working Capital Demand Loans (WCDL), with a 
view to meet all its committed obligations in normal course 
in timely manner & with a view to create war chest to meet 
any eventuality in the situation arising out of lock down due to 
Covid-19 in the whole country. However with the improved 
business situation and cash flows, the company prepaid most 
of its loans by mid June 2020. All other loans were fully paid 
off as per schedule by December, 2020.
2. Working Capital Borrowing
During the year, Company dismantled its Consortium 
Arrangement and moved into Multiple Banking Arrangement 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 37
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-2021
(MBA), with a view to achieve better efficiencies at optimum 
cost.
Company is thankful to its bankers for their unstinted support 
and also for having agreed to join the MBA on fully unsecured 
basis. As such Company’s working capital facilities aggregating 
to R 1470.90 crores are totally unsecured either by way of 
Primary Security or by way of Collateral Security. This shows 
the confidence reposed by all the Bankers on the company 
and its management, supported by established track record of 
the company, improved operating margin, strong key financial 
ratios year after year. Company had already become debt free 
for its term debt in the preceding year. Now, during the year, it 
stopped borrowing for its working capital requirements as well, 
resulting in a paradigm shift from borrowing to investing its 
accumulated surplus cash into a) highest security mutual funds 
with sound parentage, high AUM (assets under management) 
and b) fixed deposits of highly rated and well established 
companies.
Company intends to use its surplus cash to continue to grow 
organically, while being open to explore the opportunities to 
grow inorganically through rightful acquisitions.
The Raw Material Prices have seen sharp upward trend during 
the year from May, 2020 onwards. In view of the healthy 
cash flow, Company could utilise its cash accruals to meet 
the increased working capital requirements as well as also 
plan its material procurement appropriately, which resulted 
in uninterrupted production and supplies to its customers. 
Company continued to exercise strict control over its 
receivables and also by keeping moderation in inventory levels. 
Through better supplier credit management, it is monitoring 
its working capital cycle effectively & efficiently. 
3. Dealers’ Financing 
The Dealers’ Finance facilities provided to Channel Partners are 
proceeding well. Every year, more & more channel partners are 
joining the Channel Finance Scheme, in view of competitive 
rate of interest & unsecured facilities offered by the bank. 
Seasonal / peak business requirements are also taken care 
of by the Bank, by providing temporary incremental limits. 
Extended credit terms have also been provided to the Channel 
Partners in challenging time during lockdown due to Covid-19 
pandemic last year. 
4. CRISIL Rating
As per the latest review conducted in the last quarter, (a) 
the Rating for Company’s Short term bank facilities were 
reaffirmed at “CRISIL A1+” rating by CRISIL (which is the 
highest rating for the Short term instruments) and (b) Rating 
for Long Term Bank facilities were upgraded from “CRISIL AA 
Stable Outlook” to “CRISIL AA Positive”. The outlook revision 
as explained by CRISIL is due to-:
•	 the improvement in the business risk profile, driven by
healthy pick up in sales and operating margin, since the 
third quarter of fiscal 2021. 
•	 Healthy rural demand and better realizations, amidst
rising crude prices, have led to healthy sales growth. 
•	 Operating margin has improved driven by better
realisations, ability to pass on hike in raw material prices 
to customers and increased share of higher-margin valueadded products. 
•	 Financial risk profile is also robust, supported by strong
capital structure and debt protection metrics outlook”
5. Capital Expenditure
5.1. Considering optimistic business growth potential, the Company 
has incurred Capital Expenditure (capex) of R 314 crores, 
during the year under review. The entire capex has been 
funded through internal accruals only. The highlights of the 
capex incurred are as follows -:
(a) Putting Moulding shop to make pipe fittings at Kharagpur 
complex.
(b) Establishing capacity to manufacture PVC Pipe Systems/ 
CPVC Pipe System at Jadcherla.
(c) Adding new models of Injection moulded furniture, Crates 
& pallets in the Company’s range of furniture and Material 
Handling Products.
(d) Installing additional extrusion line to manufacture Cross 
Laminated Film at Get Muvala Unit at Halol (Gujarat).
(e) Increasing PVC Pipe capacity at Kanpur and DWC Pipe 
capacity & range at Kharagpur
(f) Increasing HDPE & CPVC pipe capacity at Kharagpur
(g) To add varieties of new moulds in plastic piping division 
of the Company.
(h) To expand capacities in Industrial Product Division at 
Chennai moulding unit.
(i) To purchase required land for new greenfield plastic 
product complex at Odisha and Tamilnadu.
5.2 The Company has plans to commit capex of about R 400 
Crores including carry forward commitments of R 198 Crs. at 
the beginning of the year. The committed / proposed capex 
is primarily for :-
(a) Putting new unit at Assam to manufacture PVC Pipes and 
Roto & Blow Moulded products.
(b) Putting up a plastic product complex near Cuttack in 
Odisha where required land has already been purchased 
and taken possession thereof
(c) Putting up a plastic product complex near Erode in 
Tamilnadu. The Company has already taken possession 
of about 33 acre land from SIPCOT.
(d) Establishing capacity to manufacture olefin Fittings/ PEX 
Piping System at Jadcherla.
(e) Expanding capacities of its bath fitting products at 
Puducherry
(f) Adding varieties of new injection moulded fitting products 
in its plastic Piping products
(g) To add new models of Injection moulded furniture, Crates 
& pallets in the Company’s range of furniture and Material 
Handling Products
(h) Adding several capacities of Water Tank moulds and 
additional Roto Moulding machines.
(i) To increase capacities of Industrial Component moulding 
at various location in view of increased business 
opportunities
(j) To add necessary equipments at its Proptective Packaging 
and performance packaging division
(k) To install Rooftop Solar energy generation plants at its 
various locations
(l) To install balancing equipment at various locations
The Company envisages cash accruals to remain strong in 
view of better operating margins, better realizations, increased 
share of value added products & increase in its market share 
across segments. The company expects to meet its Capex 
requirements and working capital through internal accruals 
in medium terms.
The net borrowing of R 216.42 Crores at the beginning of the 
year has become net cash surplus by end of June, 2020 and 
38 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-2021
further strengthened quarter on quarter and was over R 759 
crores at the end of the year 2020-21 and remained invested 
into various liquid fund schemes etc. 
The company’s persistent focus shall remain in, cost control 
and cost reduction, tight monitoring of working capital and 
better treasury Management. 
6. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The Company has adequate internal audit and control systems. 
Internal auditors comprising of professional firms of Chartered 
Accountants have been entrusted the job to conduct regular 
internal audits and risk based audits at all units/ locations and 
report to the management the lapses, if any. Both internal 
auditors and statutory auditors independently evaluate the 
adequacy of internal control system. Based on the audit 
observations and suggestions, follow up, remedial measures 
are being taken including review and increase in the scope of 
coverage, if necessary. The Audit Committee of Directors, in 
its periodical meetings, review the adequacy of internal control 
systems and procedures, interact with various internal auditors 
and suggest & guide for areas of improvements.
The Company has undertaken a detailed exercise to revisit 
its control systems in technical and other non financial 
areas to align them properly with Management Information 
Systems (MIS) to make MIS more efficient and result oriented. 
Information technology base created by the Company over 
the period is providing a very useful helping hand in the 
process. Needless to mention, that ensuring maintenance of 
proper accounting records, safeguarding assets against loss and 
misappropriation, compliance of applicable laws, rules and 
regulations and providing reasonable assurance against fraud 
and errors will continue to remain central point of the entire 
control systems.
7. HUMAN RESOURCES
The Company has been very proactive to support all it’s 
workforce at all the levels in best possible manner during 
the entire Covid-19 pandemic period. The Company has 
disbursed salaries and wages during entire lockdown period 
to its staff, associates and contract work force. The Company 
has provided healthcare facilities and medical reimbursements 
to the employees who were infected with Covid-19. It also 
supported financially by allowing disbursement of full salaries 
during the entire duration of medical treatment. Few of the 
casualties amongst the employees was a matter of great pain 
and concern. The Company has promised to take care of the 
children’s education apart from providing one time financial 
assistance to the family of deceased employees.
The Company has also developed its infrastructure and facilities 
by which many employees are able to work from home. The 
Company has also advised all its sales force to travel through 
safest mode and take all precautions for safe & comfortable 
journey. This has helped the Company to continue to provide 
efficient services to all its stakeholders during the whole year 
marred by pandemic Covid-19.
Human resource is considered as key to the future growth 
strategy of the Company and looks upon to focus its efforts 
to further align human resource policies, processes and 
initiatives to meet its business needs. In order to focus on 
keeping employees abreast of technological and technical 
developments, the Company provides opportunity for training 
and learning within the country and abroad. 
Industrial relations at all the units and locations are cordial. 
Cautionary Statement
Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis 
describing the Company’s objectives, expectations or 
predictions may be forward looking within the meaning of 
applicable securities, laws and regulations. Actual results 
may differ materially from those expressed in the statement. 
Important factors that would influence the Company’s 
operations include cost of raw materials, tax laws, interest and 
power cost and economic developments particularly in view 
of ongoing pandemic COVID 19 and such other factors within 
the country and the international economic and financial 
developments.