Management Discussion and Analysis
1. OVERVIEW
The year began on a gloomy note with the second wave of 
Covid which affected the economy in general and the rural 
economy in particular, in a very severe way. The first quarter 
of the year which normally remains most business friendly 
for the Company (considering its product profile) witnessed 
quite a weak demand for most of the product segments of 
the Company.
Thereafter, Polymer prices witnessed relentless upward 
march which continued up to middle of November 2021. 
Subsequently, prices fell quite steeply (especially in PVC 
Resin) which virtually destroyed the demand of Plastic Pipe 
Systems albeit temporarily.
Even in such extreme adverse circumstances, the Company 
managed to recover large quantum of its lost business and 
achieved substantially better business in remaining part of 
the year. (compared to preceding previous year) in most of 
the segments in which it operates.
Covid-19 pandemic was very effectively contained by the 
Central & State Governments with effective vaccination 
drive and local lockdowns, while largely enforcing Covid 
appropriate behavior. This has galvanised the economy on 
growth path. It was further supported by normal monsoon 
resulting in improved agricultural production.
Despite the hostile & adverse environment, Company 
maintained a positive outlook for its growth plans. It persisted 
with its large investment plan with full confidence that 
business will be quite promising in the year 2022-23 and 
beyond.
The expectations are proving to be realistic. This is further 
supported by softening of the upward trend of Plastic raw 
material prices. From the start of the year beginning April 
2022, the Polymer prices have started downward trend.
Company sold 4,11,521 tons product in the year 2019-20. 
Thereafter, in subsequent two years, the volumes continued 
downward trend reaching a low of 3,93,908 tons in the year 
2021-22. The Company is confident that in the current year 
(2022-23) Company will be able to achieve good business 
volume and growth over pre-covid level achieved in the 
year 2019-20.
Most of the business segments are now showing improved 
demand prospects. The Composite LPG Cylinder division 
which was formed in the year 2014 was languishing up to 
end of March 2021. However during the year under review, 
this division started utilizing its capacity effectively and has 
now firmed up its expansion plan to double the installed 
capacity.
Thus, the Company is now actively present in thermoset 
section of Plastics, which augurs well for the further growth 
plans in this section of business.
The Company continues with its investment plans vigorously 
which may exceed the Capex plan of 2021-22. The 
Company envisages good business growth opportunities in 
all its segments going forward as the impact of pandemic 
has ebbed and several initiatives are being taken by the 
Government to put the Country on higher growth path.
2. PRODUCT GROUPS
The product groups of the Company have been categorised 
as follows:
Group Products
Plastics 
Piping 
System
uPVC Pipes, Injection Moulded PVC fittings 
and handmade fittings, Polypropylene 
Random Co-polymer pipe system, HDPE 
Pipe Systems, CPVC Pipes Systems, 
Inspection Chambers, manholes, Toilets 
Bath fittings, Roto moulded Tanks and Fittings 
and Solvents, Industrial Piping System, DWC 
Pe Pipe System, Pex Pipe System and Fire 
Sprinkler System
Consumer 
products
Furniture 
Industrial 
Products
Industrial Components, Material handling 
System and Pallets - Roto moulded crates, 
pallets and garbage bins and Composite 
LPG Cylinders.
Packaging 
Products
Flexible packaging film products, Protective 
Packaging Products, Cross Laminated Film 
products.
PRODUCT GROUP WISE SHARE IN TURNOVER 
FOR THE LAST TWO YEARS (% of Value)
Plastics 
Piping 
Systems []
Industrial 
Products []
Packaging 
Products []
Consumer 
Products [] 2021-22 
 Plastics Piping 
System 66% Packaging 
Products 16%
Industrial 
Products 13% 
Consumer 
Products 5%
2021-22
Plastic Piping 
System 
[]
Industrial 
Products
[]
Packaging 
Products 
[]
Consumer 
Products []
2020-21 
 Plastics Piping 
System 65% Packaging 
Products 17%
Industrial 
Products 12% 
Consumer 
Products 6%
2020-21
The net turnover (including other income) of the Company 
for the year under review was R 7840.51Crores (including 
R 105.89 Crores by way of trading in other related products) 
as against R 6383.59 Crores (including R 125.23 Crores 
by way of trading in other related products) during the 
previous year.
The Company has sold 393908 tons of Plastic products as 
against 409109 tons of Plastic products in the corresponding 
period of previous year, reflecting a de-growth of 4% in 
product turnover by volume. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
34 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
The Company exported goods worth US $ 29.11 million as 
against US $ 18.35 million during the corresponding period 
of the previous year. Profit before interest, depreciation and 
exceptional items and taxes during the period under review 
have been at R 1309.89 Crores as against R 1312.74 Crores 
during the previous year.
3. COMPANY STRENGTH AND GROWTH DRIVERS
3.1 Manufacturing Sites
The Company is operating from 25 manufacturing sites 
across 12 States and Union Territories. The Company has 
taken up of Three Green Field Projects primarily for Plastics 
Piping System in the States of Assam, Odisha and Tamil 
Nadu. Same are likely to be in operation during first half of 
current year.
3.2 Distribution Network
The Company is committed to reach to all the Tehsil areas of 
the Country. The Company has been able to create Dealer 
network in hundreds of Tehsils during the year, where 
Company’s products are either not there or having very 
marginal reach. The Company’s active Channels Partners 
strength increased to 4053 Nos in March 2022.
Global markets have started opening up, enabling the 
Company to reach to the overseas customers. The Company 
has started participating in various national and international 
exhibitions, frequency of which is expected to further 
increase going forward.
The Company continues to open more Depots to service its 
customers in a cost efficient manner. The Company has total 
36 Depots and Fabrication facilities for its various product 
groups.
3.3 Growth Drivers
The Company’s spend on TV advertisement at regional and 
national level and in various sports events being telecast 
apart from use of diverse modes of media during the year 
has strengthened its Brand further. Participation in various 
national & international exhibitions has again started. 
The Company has conducted large nos. of plumber meets to 
educate them about new piping products, proper application 
techniques etc . The same has been well appreciated by the 
plumbing community and they have expressed their desire 
for more such events to be organised on regular basis. 
Knowledge centers opened by the Company are playing a 
pivotal role in providing knowledge about new products/
applications and able to create awareness among architects, 
contractors, farmers, plumbers and channel partners. 
Unfortunately counterfeit products are being introduced 
by some unscrupulous players in a large way in the Pipe 
Segment, Cross Laminated film and Furniture product 
segments. The Company is quite active in seeking legal 
remedy to protect the consumers from getting cheated. 
The Company has been largely successful in containing this 
menace which however appears to be a recurring problem 
area.
3.4 Renewable Energy - a way forward
The Company is committed and has taken very focused steps 
to ensure that it uses more and more green and renewal 
energy and becomes more environmental friendly.
Roof top solar capacity of the Company has almost 
doubled from 8.61 Mwp FY(20-21) to 17.09 Mwp during 
the year FY(21-22) i.e. increase of 8.480 Mwp successfully 
commissioned at various units. Further commissioning of 
6.22 Mwp Roof Top Solar Power is in progress at various 
units & shall become operational in April/ May 2022. 
Company also signed PPA of 3.5 Mwp Group Captive Solar 
Power for its units in U.P. which is likely to be operational 
by September, 2022.
Company is also using and exploring ways to increase uses of 
wind energy. During the year 102.84 Lakh wind units were 
consumed by different units across India which constitutes 
3.85% of Company’s total energy consumption. Further, 
Company also signed PPA of 70 Lakh Hybrid Units PA for 
its two units located at Halol in Gujarat. Company plans to 
further invest about R 40 Crs. during the year for Solar energy 
installations and would also increase usage of renewable 
energy sources through open access/Group Captive or apex 
mode.
During the year Company could achieve usage of about 
12% of its total energy consumption through renewable 
energy sources and it aims to achieve 20% target by end of 
financial year 2022-23.
The Company aspires to be carbon neutral at the earliest 
feasible and would pursue this vision in a focussed manner 
by taking various effective steps and allocating more 
resources.
4. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
4.1 PLASTICS PIPING SYSTEMS
The Company continues its objective to aggressively grow 
Plastic Pipe System business where the Company is a leader 
in the segment as it has the largest portfolio of products, 
which is being continuously expanded to offer more systems 
as required by the market it caters to.
During the year under review the Company registered an 
overall revenue growth of about 24.6% in Plastic Piping 
System made from different plastic materials. Overall the 
Company sold 274295 Tons of Pipe System compared to 
294357 Tons in the preceding year.
In the year under review the spread of corona pandemic 
was more pronounced in rural areas and consequently the 
AGRI business was affected adversely especially during the 
months of April’21 and May’21. Since the AGRI business 
is of large volumes and seasonal, the loss could not be 
recouped during the off-season period, when there is low 
demand for this application. This has led to de-growth in 
volumes for the full year.
PVC is the predominant raw material in the Company’s 
Plastic Pipe business. During the year 21-22 the prices of 
PVC were literally in roller coaster mode. The prices of PVC 
were in upward trend from 16th March 2021 till middle of 
May 2021. Overall prices of PVC went up by R 16/- per kg 
during that period. Thereafter from 1st June ’21 prices of PVC 
started decreasing till up to July’ 2021 and the fall was close 
to R 10/- per kg. Thereafter from 1st August’21 onwards the 
prices of PVC kept increasing till middle of November’21. 
Overall prices of PVC went up by R 42/- per kg during that 
period. Thereafter again the prices of PVC started falling and 
the prices decreased by approx. R 29/- per kg up to beginning 
February’22. This has affected the market sentiment and led 
to de-growth by around 6.9% in volume for the year. 
The Government at the Centre and States have put 
the priority focus on Jal Jeevan Mission (To provide tap 
connections to every household), Pradhan Mantri Awas 
Yojana (Housing for all), AMRUT, Swatch Bharat Abhiyan, 
Sanitation and affordable houses to all and development of 
100 smart cities on all India basis. NITI Aayog has declared 
following as growth drivers across the country:
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 35
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
•	 Government infrastructure spending
•	 Increasing construction
•	 Increasing Industrial production
•	 Rising demand from irrigation sector
•	 Replacement of aging Pipes
•	 Providing affordable house to all
•	 Heavy investment by Government in irrigation, housing
and sanitization 
Almost all the above growth initiatives will give a boost to 
the business of Plastic Piping System Division.
Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA) has transformed the way 
housing sector business is conducted in the Country. Many 
prominent Business Houses have announced ambitious 
plans in this sector to grow geometrically with launch 
of their projects at multiple locations. For affordable 
housing segment the Company has introduced customer 
friendly drainage system under the different brand name 
“Streamline” which meets all functional requirements of 
the affordable Housing sector. The growth tempo has now 
started and the Company expects good demand coming 
from the segment on a sustainable basis.
The Company incurred a Capex of R 132.26 crores in 
the year under review in its various plants to build higher 
capacities and increased range. Majority of them have been 
put to use.
The Company with objective of making its footprint for 
manufacturing in South Zone, for Plastic Piping Division, 
has commenced the manufacturing at Jadcherla, DistrictMahaboobnagar at Telangana in a plot area of 50 acres. 
The production of PVC Pipes, cPVC Pipes, Water & Septic 
Tanks at this location has started. The Company is planning 
to start one more plant at South zone at Perundurai, Tamil 
Nadu.
The plant at Kharagpur is now fully operational. The 
increased capacity of HDPE and DWC Pipes at Kharagpur 
plant is in place. Further capacity expansion of Moulded 
Fittings is also complete. Plant is operating at its optimum 
capacity now.
The Company now has three plants producing HDPE Pipes 
in West, East and North Zones to cater to these markets 
effectively. The Company has planned to start the production 
of HDPE Pipes at three more new locations and all are 
expected to be in place during FY 22-23.
The Company now manufactures Roto Moulded Products 
at all four geographies of the country viz., North, South, 
East and West to service these markets cost effectively. The 
Company plans to add manufacturing of Water Tanks at 
three more locations during FY 22-23. The Company has put 
in place plans to substantially increase the business of Water 
Tanks through different market strategy of servicing directly 
to retailers from the respective factories at many places. The 
Company also launched Premium range of Water Tanks 
branded as “Weather Shield” with added features such as 
superior thermal insulation etc., from three locations with 
good market response. To cater to economy range of Water 
Tanks market the Company plans to start the manufacturing 
of Blow Moulded Water Tanks at two of its locations viz. 
Assam and West Bengal.
Overall, by September this year, the Company will be 
producing Tanks at 8 different locations which will enable 
it to service customers more economically.
The production of Double Wall Corrugated HDPE Pipes 
continues from Gadegaon and Kharagpur plants with 
necessary BIS Certification. The Company has also launched 
suitable DWC Pipe for Cable Ducting application to cater 
to this application. The Company is in process to educate 
various departments about the benefits of putting in place 
a good quality DWC Pipes with latest technology and using 
virgin certified raw materials in terms of performance and 
longer life.
The Company introduced 66 nos. of variety of Injection 
Moulded Pipe fittings during 2021-22. They all have been 
well received in the market. The Company has plans of 
introducing further new items during the year as per system 
requirement. The total product portfolio in Plastic Pipe 
System has reached 9108 nos., thus adding 338 products to 
the range of various Plastic Piping System, over the preceding 
year.
The Company manufactures the cPVC Pipes at four of its 
manufacturing locations and cPVC Fittings at two of its 
manufacturing locations. The production of cPVC pipes 
at Jadcherla plant is fully functional with necessary BIS 
certification. For some time The Company had raw material 
availability problem from its only source viz. Kaneka, Japan 
on account of one of its plants having been shut down 
(owing to snow storm in USA) in February 2021. That plant 
of Kaneka has now restarted production. The Company 
is assured of larger volume of CPVC supply in the current 
year from them compared to previous year. The Company 
has also independently tied up with other sources to get 
increased volume of CPVC resins in the current year. The 
cPVC system sales during the year under review grew by 
36.7% in value over preceding year.
The Company plans to start three new manufacturing units 
at new locations viz. Guwahati (Assam), Cuttack (Odisha) 
and Perundurai (Tamil Nadu) for Plastic Pipes, Hoses, Water 
Tanks, Septic Tanks etc. At Guwahati the machine installation 
is complete and it should start commercial production 
shortly. At Cuttack the Company has already acquired 29 
acres of land and is in the process of further acquiring 4-5 
acres of land which are plots in between and after taking 
these plots the land will become contiguous. The Company 
has already awarded the Civil and PEB contracts for same 
and construction is in full swing. The Company plans to start 
the production at Cuttack unit by August’22. At Perundurai 
(Tamilnadu) the Company has taken 32 acres of land 
from SIPCOT at their fully developed Industrial Site. The 
construction work is in full swing. For PVC Pipe production, 
at that plant the Company is shifting required machines 
from Gadegaon plant. However, for other products the new 
machines are being ordered. The commercial production 
there is likely to start by August’22.
The Company has started manufacturing variety of 
Specialized Valves such as Butterfly Valves, Swing Check 
Valves, Ball type non-return Valve etc.. These Valves have 
been designed for different applications like Industrial, 
Agriculture and Plumbing segments. They are made of 
specialized materials to ensure reliability & longer life and 
also to meet best of global standards. The Company has 
received positive response from the market. The Company 
intends to increase the range of Valves for Industrial usage 
in the current year.
The AQUAKRAFT Bath Fittings (including newly launched 
Chrome Plated range) introduced by the Company is now 
well established. There were 26 new items introduced 
during the year. The portfolio in Bath Fittings has reached to 
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
36 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
150 items. The Company plans to further complement the 
range during 2022-23 by introducing many new products in 
Bath fittings including some of the premium products. The 
enhanced manufacturing facility at the newly built unit to 
make Bath Fittings at Pondicherry is already in place. The 
Bath Fittings sales during the year under review grew by 30% 
over corresponding previous year.
The Company now has 31 Product Systems in the division 
and plans to add 4 new systems in the division viz. Electrical 
Conduit system, Hoses (Garden and Pressure), PEX Pipe 
system and Olefins Moulded Fittings (Compression and 
Electro fusion) during the current year.
The Company’s business to Export market during the year 
had a growth of 84.57% in US $ terms. The Company is 
continuously trying to increase its export business of Piping 
Systems in several markets.
The Division’s Value-Added Products sale was 41.89% 
compared to 39.27% in the previous year. The Company 
is now servicing through 1250 Channel partners. The 
Company continues to expand its reach by appointing 
new Distributors in areas where there is a gap in servicing. 
The Company has also started directly servicing retailers in 
selected markets for certain specific products of this division.
The Company has set up multiple Knowledge Centres 
across the country to train Plumbers and interact with 
Farmers, Architects and Plumbing consultants in respective 
zones. Currently, they are functioning at Gadegaon, Kochi, 
Malanpur and Kharagpur. Company expects to start such 
centres at more locations in near future at the new upcoming 
units. 
With the help of specialists, the Company has embarked 
upon a new activity with nomenclature as “Plumbing 
Workshop” which is a full day session with Plumbers. 
Here the sharing is of latest Plumbing techniques along 
with applications of new products introduced by the 
Company in the recent past in the range. The markets have 
well appreciated it and there is pressure on Company to 
increase the Plumbing Workshop numbers substantially. The 
Company could organize only 67 Plumbing workshops in 
the year 2021-22 owing to pandemic related restrictions. 
Company plans to organize 300 Plumbing Workshops 
during the year 2022-23. There are now more than 93,000 
Plumbers associated with the Company.
The Company extended welfare measures to its influencers 
and continue to take appropriate measures for their well 
being.
The Company has started monitoring data of retailers who 
buy regularly through its distribution channels. An action 
plan to increase the number of such retailers on all India 
basis has been worked out and is being tracked. There are 
now more than 41,000 retailers connected with Piping 
System Business on a regular basis.
FlameGuard CPVC pipe system made by the Company is 
considered as a safe material for the use in fire sprinkler 
system in many parts of the country. 
Unlike plumbing system, a fire sprinkler system requires 
multiple approvals. Much awaited revision in Indian 
standard IS-15105 has been completed and revised standard 
has been published towards the end of August ’21. Now 
CPVC has been considered as an alternate material to metal 
system for use in Automatic sprinkler fire extinguishing 
system. As system is considered in Indian standard more 
customers started considering this system as an alternate 
material to traditional metal system.
Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat have already started 
the use of CPVC Fire Sprinkler system.
The cost of the GI pipes for fire sprinkler has shown steep 
increase and the price gap between metal and CPVC 
system has been reduced considerably. The system has 
limited success in a part of the country where MS pipe is 
still considered as material for installation in sprinkler system 
instead of GI pipe. The cost of the MS pipe is approximately 
20-25% less compared to GI pipe system. 
In addition to this Company has started use of own in-house 
compound. As a result, the cost of the system has been 
reduced drastically. At present the Company is dependent 
on the import of metal insert fittings and the solvent 
cement. The Company is exploring with its collaborator for 
manufacturing of solvent cement also locally. 
Product installation training for this system is a mandatory 
requirement before the actual installation starts to avoid 
hiccups. The Company provides the technical support by 
providing the Bill of Quantities (BOQ) from the sprinkler 
layout of the project. The Company also offers full support 
to the installer including the value engineering to reduce the 
cost without compromising the quality of the installation. 
The Company expects substantial business growth in this 
segment in coming years.
The Company got Brand Health Survey done for Supreme 
Piping System. Participants in the survey were consumers, 
retailers and influencers on all India basis. The necessary 
actions are being planned to improve the Brand Health in 
states based on findings of this survey.
To support environment concerns, Company is gearing up 
to meet with National Green Tribunal directive of phasing 
out Lead stabilizers from manufacturing of different types 
of uPVC Pipes. The Company has already started using lead 
free stabilisers in many piping systems. 
4.2 CONSUMER PRODUCTS
4.2.1FURNITURE
The year 2021-22 was a tough year for furniture business 
owing to steep increase in Polymer prices. The prices of 
PP increased by almost 20% from October 2021 onwards, 
adversely affecting the demand of furniture in the second 
half. The Company registered value growth of 36% in the 
first half of 21-22 but witnessed a flat second half. For the 
full year, the Company registered growth of 11% in value 
terms but its volumes declined by 6%.
Furniture demand remained adversely affected due to 
service segments not opening up such as Marriage Places, 
Restaurants, Decorators, Schools & Colleges etc. Even 
other segments have seen low demand as they have been 
cautious in their new purchases. Similar trend was seen 
in household purchases as customers are holding back on 
their discretionary spend. The effect of increase in prices 
of PP had a cascading impact on consumer purchases of 
the furniture as the differential in pricing with unbranded 
reprocessed furniture became large. However, the Company 
sees a bright future for the current year as the polymer prices 
have started declining since beginning of the year. With all 
sections of economy opening up paving the way for a growth 
in demand of The Company’s furniture products. 
The Company continues to remain a market leader in 
the Premium Range of Plastic Furniture. The Company’s 
premium furniture business grew by 19% in value terms 
during the year and its share of total sales grew from 47% 
to 50% during the year. Due to its multiple manufacturing 
units located across the country e.g. in North (Punjab), 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 37
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
South (Puducherry & Telangana), East (West Bengal), West 
(Maharashtra) & North East (Assam), the Company has an 
excellent reach at Pan India level and is committed to serve 
its customers efficiently. 
The Company is a pioneer in upgrading the perception of 
plastic furniture by introducing highly innovative premium 
range. The Company is now focusing on creating large retail 
showrooms for displaying plastic furniture in an attractive 
manner. This will help the consumers to select the furniture 
of their choice from a vast range of display and offer them a 
pleasant experience of buying the premium furniture. The 
Company opened 22 such showrooms in Eastern India in 
21-22 and plans to have total 100 such showrooms by close 
of 22-23. 
The Company manufactures furniture with all three different 
technologies i.e Injection Moulding, Blow Moulding & Roto 
Moulding. The Company has been manufacturing Injection 
Moulded Furniture for last 31 years and it contributes to 95% 
of its total furniture sales. The Company started manufacture 
of Roto Moulded Furniture in Feb 2020 but these products 
could not be marketed properly in 21-22 owing to schools 
remaining closed all through the year. With schools now 
opening up, the Company expects business to establish 
from the Roto Moulded range in current financial year.
During the year, the Company’s sales of Blow Moulded 
Tables remained flat over last year owing to various business 
segments such as decorators, schools remaining almost 
closed. However, the Company has initiated marketing 
efforts for promoting its sale and expects good growth in 22-
23 from this segment. The Company is already supplying 21 
models of Blow Moulded Tables and will soon be introducing 
4 more models in the first quarter.
The Company introduced 12 New models during the 
year of various furniture items comprising of chairs, tables, 
cupboards & baby furniture. Some of the new models 
have been well received and are expected to acieve good 
growth in the coming year. With economy opening up, the 
Company plans to launch variety of new models during 
22-23 which will help in overall growth in the coming year. 
The Company is committed to make available its furniture 
across India and is working towards increasing its retail 
penetration at each Tehsil/ Taluka level. The Company 
currently has 14522 retailers selling its furniture who are 
being serviced through Company’s network of 1306 channel 
partners. The Company plans to add 1900 retail outlets 
during the year. The Company has identified some of its 
weak markets and has planned to intensify the marketing 
activity in those markets for improving its retail penetration 
and increasing the number of channel partners in those 
markets.
The Company’s furniture range is sold on various e 
commerce portals through a few dedicated channel partners 
as well as various resellers. The Company has initiated the 
process of allowing authorized resellers to actively promote 
the sales through transparency program of Amazon for 
proper servicing of customers, build ratings for Company 
products and increase the overall online sales. The Company 
has launched its own portal for showcasing to its consumers 
its wide range of premium products and make it available 
for them from the comforts of their home. The Company 
is focused on increasing its online presence and product 
offerings and sees this as a future growth driver. 
During the year under review Company’s export business 
declined over preceding year owing to steep increase in sea 
freights. The Company has built close relationship with some 
of the leading major retail chains but due to extremely high 
sea freights all orders are on hold. The Company expects 
business to flow as soon as the sea freights are normalised. 
The Company is focusing on markets where the sea freight 
increase impact is relatively less and hopes to see a growth 
in the export sales this year. 
4.3 INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
4.3.1INDUSTRIAL COMPONENTS
The year 21-22 started on a bullish note backed by excellent 
Q4 of FY 20-21 in terms of buoyant economy and demand 
up stick in both Automotive and Consumer Durables 
although some signs were visible of Covid19 second wave. 
However, contrary to initial indication of mild variant, it 
actually turned out to be highly devastating wave. Obviously, 
various state Govts instituted significant Curbs affecting 
sentiments and thereby market demand. Although, factories 
were running, capacity utilization remained suboptimal 
through May – July period due to low off take from 
customers. Although, demand started looking up thereafter, 
sales of first quarter was affected irretrievably. The year was 
marked by huge supply chain issues at all our customers 
due to shortage of imported material because of shipping 
and logistics issues, non-availability of containers, shortage 
of semi-conductors etc. This led to typical scenario of high 
demand but no supply. Supply chain was also affected by 
rising commodity and fuel prices during the year. 
There was marked shift in Customer Preferences in the 
market in Washer segment, from Semi-Automatic to Fully 
Automatic Machines. This shift adversely affected the 
Company as it has considerable presence in Semi-Automatic 
Washer parts supply to OEs. Company is working very closely 
with the OEs for rationalization of Product –Mix Share to 
address this shift going forward.
In spite of such adversity, The Company’s customers were 
working aggressively to minimize effect of various shortages 
and managed to clock reasonable growth. In effect, the 
Division achieved decent revenue growth of 24% year on 
year.
Initiatives taken by the Company during lean period 
of last year to carry out all round improvements in the 
area of Productivity, Quality, Cost Reduction and People 
development were continued through this year also. 
Education of team members on World Class Manufacturing 
Practices, Lean Manufacturing, Training on identified Skill 
Gaps, Soft Skills etc by series of Virtual as well as Physical 
Learning Programs, both by the Internal and External 
Faculties were accelerated. Team members from both 
Staff and Associate category from various plants of the 
Division were involved in this exercise during this period. 
The Cost Management Project, code named “Rainbow 
Project” for focused cost reduction, launched last year is 
now matured with bringing in culture to look for avenues 
for cost saving projects and work on it. Strategy was made 
and its implementation started to develop new businesses 
to improve Capacity Utilization of certain underutilized 
Machines and Equipments. All these actions started yielding 
results in getting new business from the Company’s existing 
customers as well as new customers.
Looking at positive demand scenario in various sectors 
of Appliances like Washing Machines, Air Conditioners, 
Coolers and Refrigerators, segments where The Company 
has good presence, The Company invested in Capacity 
Expansion at various locations. This has started yielding 
results and will help the division going forward. Demand 
recovery in Auto sector also helped the Division for revenue 
growth with significant demand up stick in the Segments 
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
38 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
of the Company’s presence like Passenger Vehicles, and 
Commercial Vehicles although demand remained subdued 
in Two Wheelers. 
We expect semiconductors to be still in shortage for at 
least 6-8 months before it gets eased. This coupled with 
the uncertainties on Geo-Political Front will keep volatility 
in demand pattern for The Company’s customers and in 
effect to the Company although we expect it to be a short 
term phenomenon. However, The Company feels that 
Business scenario remains bullish in medium and long term 
with business friendly policies by the Govt., particularly 
PLI Scheme launched both in Automotive and Consumer 
Appliances sectors. The Company has planned need based 
Capacity Augmentation to handle the projected increased 
demand going forward. The new machines being planned 
are with the latest Technology, Energy efficient, and 
Robust Design for Excellent Quality and Repeatability. The 
Company is also working on cost efficient Automation.
The Company continues to enjoy Excellent Overall Rating by 
its Customers as it either meets or exceeds their expectations. 
The Company is considered as one of the most reliable 
suppliers in its area of expertise by the customers. This has 
helped the Division to get extra business from its customers 
whenever other suppliers failed to supply. Division is 
continuously striving to excel in all Operational Parameters 
as its culture. It helps the Company to remain cost efficient 
in this fiercely competitive supply chain to OEM Customers.
4.3.2MATERIAL HANDLING PRODUCTS
The year under review began with uncertainty and ambiguity. 
In most of the Indian states panic and gloom was prevalent 
due to incessant increase in COVID cases and subsequent 
lock downs. The industrial business activity was also affected 
with sentiments down and low at the beginning, but with 
rapid Govt. actions and wide vaccination, situation started 
improving in majority of sectors before close of the first 
quarter. The Year also witnessed highly fluctuating Polymer 
prices having direct impact on business of the Division. 
Even in the atmosphere of subdued activities in the first half 
of the year (which was more pronounced in Automobile, 
Engineering, Textiles and White goods), Company’s 
Materials Handling Products Division stood its ground firmly 
and registered impressive Growth both in terms of Volume 
and Revenue.
Notwithstanding the adverse effects of closures and 
restrictions owing to pandemic, MHD’s industrial crates 
range grew 32% in revenue and 15% in volume terms. These 
industrial crates primarily cater to Industries Like automobile, 
Engineering, white goods and E-commerce.
With very positive vibes visible in Automobile & engineering 
spaces, with major Auto OEM’s marching ahead with 
expansion in Capacities for Electric Vehicles, Many 
companies are also encouraged by Union Govt. incentives, 
new activities and new launches. These Industries are in 
fact drivers of demand for MHD’s Industrial Crates. These 
new launches will also give an impetus to the Company’s 
consistent sales efforts for growth and consolidation.
Your Company is constantly improving and optimising the 
existing range of Products and poised for introduction of 
newer models for industrial Electric Vehicle space during 
the current year.
The Company’s constant focus to enhance customer 
reach, service and educating the targeted audiences for 
both injection and roto pallets have given positive results, 
which has also helped surge in Exports during the year 
under review. Demand for one time use export pallets 
has increased and The Company has registered impressive 
growth both in Injection moulded regular repeated use 
pallets as well as one time use export pallets. 
The Company is consistently engaging with its diverse 
industrial customers to gauge and understand their industry 
and application specific needs of Pallets and developing new 
models both for one time and repeated use . New models 
for advanced Storage systems are about to be launched in 
the first quarter itself. If specifics fit into place, the Company 
shall be exploring the launch of a few more models in the 
coming year.
Roto Pallets which are regular in demand especially by 
Pharma and Foods industry besides the custom made models 
which are required for specific needs, have posted excellent 
results and grown by 50% in revenue and over 27% in 
volume terms. The Company is expanding the roto moulding 
Pallets and other products infrastructure at its Jadcherla 
(Telangana) Unit to cater to the demand of customers 
based at southern states. This will start operating by April 
this year. The division will continue introducing new Roto 
Pallets models at Gadegaon, Kharagpur and Jadcherla units 
to meet specific requirements of the Company’s customers.
The dairy segment in the Country is growing at a steady 
pace every year. Though the Company caters to some select 
quality conscious customers, its growth in this segment is 
a reflection of Industry growth as the Company has grown 
around 90% in value terms and around 60% in volume 
terms. The Company is confident that momentum of growth 
will continue in coming years as the Company expands its 
business in South and Western states.
In space of E-commerce and retail. which is constantly 
consolidating its presence in the country, your Company is 
slowly and steadily becoming a favourite of top E-commerce 
and Retail players. Recently introduced crate models suiting 
E- commerce and retails operations have all been successful 
registering growth of over 50% in volume terms 
In last two years, your Company has observed a marked shift 
in demand pattern for Dustbins. The earlier, roto dustbins 
models were being replaced by highly cost effective Injection 
moulded dustbins. The Division, recognising this shift, 
introduced five new injection dustbin models last year and 
has been able to double up the sales in volume terms. 
The Company has ambitious plans to at least triple the 
sales of injection dustbins from the present volumes more 
so after observing the heightened activities in many states 
in the country, for Swachh Bharat Mission, which could not 
be actively promoted for last two years owing to Pandemic.
The soft drink and Beverages segment also suffered a pause 
of almost two years. This year however it has started gearing 
up. While keeping our relationship with major players intact, 
The Company has shown impressive results in bottle crates 
range as well. The Company expects to double the sales 
volume during the current year in this segment.
There are a few pain areas too. In fisheries crates market, 
the Company did not grow and lost some volume. Due to 
two successive hurricanes in Coastal areas there has been 
serious disruption in Fisheries sector and overall market 
for crates shrunk last year. The Company’s fisheries jumbo 
crate models are highly appreciated for their unmatched 
quality, service and the Company is confident to achieve 
encouraging numbers & growth in this segment during the 
current year. 
In F&V crates market where the Company continues to 
serve only select quality conscious customers and mostly 
refrain from selling to mass markets which are a buzzed 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 39
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
with substandard quality. During the year under review the 
Company did not grow in this market but managed to keep 
its customer base intact. Company is hopeful of renewed 
growth in this segment during the current year.
The Company is highly focussed to constantly improve its 
product quality and the level of timely delivery of products 
to its customers. The division has been able to add many 
new customers all over the country and would strive to 
continue enlarge it”s customer base.
To improve the Company’s market reach, the Company is 
regularly strengthening its sales force and adding channel 
network partners to cover unrepresented areas. The 
Company is vigilant to enhance the capacities to meet the 
demand and introduce new models to augment the growth 
momentum of the division.
4.3.3.COMPOSITE LPG CYLINDER
Persistent efforts by the Company has yielded positive 
results for this division. Division has recovered the market 
and a great boost is received by steady repeat orders from 
its existing customers overseas. 
All technical issues of the past have been satisfactorily resolved 
and division has not received any customer complaint during 
the year under review. There is continuous flow of enquiries 
from new overseas customers. Most heartening event for the 
division was the successful introduction of Composite LPG 
cylinders in the domestic market.
The Company has successfully participated and received 
Letter of Intent (LOI) for supply of 7,35,186 Nos of 10 Kg. 
capacity Composite LPG Cylinders valuing about R 170 
Crores from Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL), one of 
the leading government oil marketing Company. Supplies 
have commenced from March, 2022 and bulk of the order 
quantity shall be delivered in the current year.
The volume of business is large which surpasses the existing 
installed capacity. The Company has taken effective steps to 
install a new plant on a war footing in the same premises to 
double the capacity and the same is likely be operational by 
November, 2022, which will enable the Company to make 
around 1 Million Nos per year.
The Company is balancing orders from existing and new 
customers to provide excellent quality Composite LPG 
cylinders in international and domestic markets and 
prospects for the division look promising.
4.4. PACKAGING PRODUCTS
4.4.1 Packaging films
Performance Films Division (PFD) 
The Performance Films Division has recorded 22% growth 
in Volume and about 49% growth in Value. 
The Total sale achieved was 9514 MT as against 7801 MT 
in the corresponding previous year. 
During Covid period, there was a requirement of more 
hygienic product/ packaging and therefore automation 
was a logical choice where Packaging played a Major Role. 
Therefore, usage of Barrier Packaging was essential in Edible 
Oil & Dairy industry and had a growth of 11% in Volume. 
Bag/Pouch sales increased by 40% in volume with support 
from increased Bag/Pouch making capacity. 
Exports have shown positive growth of 2806 tons as against 
1343 tons in the preceding year. Positive response from 
Middle East, Africa and other European countries made 
exports grow by 111% in volume. Other markets are now 
being explored in Europe and USA. 
The Division remains optimistic for growth in the current 
year. The customer base will grow due to Company’s quality 
commitment and excellent service. 
The Company expects to achieve volume and value growth 
in this business during the current year due to increase in 
its customer base in India and abroad. This has been made 
possible due to increase in the production capacity with 
improved product mix. 
4.4.2Protective Packaging Division
Overall
Turnover of the division was about 30%higher in value 
terms & 7% higher in volume terms in FY2021-22 over 
previous year in spite of Covid impact in Q1, this has been 
achieved due to good demand and proper planning from 
sales & manufacturing. Due to high volatility of raw material 
prices, the division was unable to pass on the burden of 
increased raw material prices fully to it’s customers impacting 
Operating Profit Margins of the division.
PROTEC, CIVIL & INSULATION Business
Division continues to focus on various new products, 
new applications and customised solutions. Increasing its 
distribution reach and adding new customers to its portfolio 
and reviving business with old customers remain priority. The 
same has resulted in decent growth in the business both in 
value as well as volume terms.
Consistent & growing demand for XLPE was witnessed in 
both domestic and exports. Expansion work has already 
started at Hosur and the division is also planning an 
expansion at Malanpur in the current fiscal year.
Consumer Products | Retail Business Vertical
Consumer Product business of the division has achieved 
growth of 25% in value terms in FY2021-22 as against 
FY2020-21. The vertical has added few new Distributors and 
now its total Distributors strength is 205. In Retail segment 
with continuous new enrolment of retailers its total Retailers 
strength stands at 5508. 
The division has started business with CSD in Sept 2021. 
Division is looking forward to a good business in CSD 
Business. 
Exports
The Company’s Exports division has achieved an export sale 
of USD 3.759 Million. The division is in process of reaching 
out to more markets and its export team is working on the 
same. Buyers have reduced their dependency on China and 
exploring opportunities with India . Division has started the 
DCDL certification process for Dubai – which is mandatory 
for getting registered its HVAC products for major projects. 
During the year under review Company has added several 
new customers in Middle East. 
NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT | INNOVATION | 
TECHNOLOGY
New Product Development: 
The Company is committed to improve its efficiency. For 
XLPE the Company has achieved better product quality and 
cost optimization. By doing so there has been improvement 
in the yield ratio.
The Company developed range of new products for 
Decathlon for their India market Retail Sales. For their 
International markets Decathlon have approved a few SKUs. 
The Company is working with Decathlon to develop various 
products based on their requirements. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
40 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
The Company has developed Cricket bats & Balls duly 
approved for quality by ISI & BIS. Currently company is 
supplying these items to Decathlon. 
To stay dominant and innovative in foam market, the 
Division has added several new products for generating new 
business and adding more customers. 
Modified design of Yoga mat embossing machine has been 
installed at Hosur, due to which productivity has increased 
considerably and it has also reduced thickness of the loss 
significantly. 
Technology
Continuous auto-punching machine along with online kiss 
cutting facility design developed in-house and installed at 
Urse Unit II which has benefitted in Manpower reduction 
and wastage reduction. 
Density range in Litecell section has also been increased 
which has helped to offer new range of products in markets 
such as Yoga Brick and Cricket Ball.
Development team has worked on XLPE product formulation 
and laminates to develop a new grade of XLPE, which has 
passed the required criteria of ASTM standard E-84 Class 
A rating with FSI and SDI Value 25/50, which is a main 
requirement to start Export business of Insulation material 
in UAE.
New Initiatives
Expansion 
The Company has gone ahead with XLPE and Capcell 
capacity expansion in this fiscal year, hardware orders are 
placed and Commercial production will start from Aug 2022 
onwards at Hosur.
To capture the roll joining business opportunity in a profitable 
manner, The Company has developed roll joining in eco 
– grade by using recycle material. The product has been 
approved and commercial production started. Customers 
are satisfied with the products. 
The division is working strongly by using alternate energy 
source like solar & wind. Significant savings of power cost 
has been achieved at Hosur unit & Malanpur. Installation is 
in process at Urse Plant. 
The Company has started work on express feeder for 
uninterrupted electricity supply to Urse plant. This will help 
in reduction of wastage and increase in productivity.
Expansion of several high value added products has been 
undertaken which will be completed by 1st half of this FY. 
4.4.3CROSS LAMINATED FILM
The Business of Cross Laminated Film & Products suffered 
a de-growth of 18.36% in volume terms during the year 
under review.
The second wave of Pandemic & the resultant localized 
lockdowns adversely affected the demand supply chain 
during the first quarter. The business of XF division was 
impacted the most due to one of its product tarpaulin being 
seasonal in nature with peak season between April to June. 
The sales were down by 23.76% in volume terms in first 
quarter compared to the same quarter in the preceding 
previous year.
The current year (FY22-23) looks promising with pandemic 
in control & normalcy being restored. SKYMET has also 
predicted normal rainfall in the year 2022 & ruled out 
occurrence of El Nino. Good monsoon season is expected 
to accelerate growth in agricultural output. The Company’s 
products are finding penetration in several agricultural 
segments. This augurs well for the future.
During the year the division has successfully carried out 
expansion of its capacity from 27000 TPA to 30000 TPA 
which is fully operational since March, 2022.
Though the overall sales have gone down, the sale of 
fabricated made-up products, other than Tarpaulins, has 
shown up a quantum jump. The Company has a state of the 
art fabrication facility to exclusively make these products at 
Halol. In the current year the thrust will be on promoting 
non – Tarpaulin products on a large scale. The Company has 
plans to appoint many new dealers / retailers to extend reach 
of these products to every nook & corner of the country. With 
extensive reach & introduction of new range of products in 
this category the Company aims to substantially increase the 
share of these value added products in the overall business.
The Company is planning to introduce new designs for its 
economy model of tarpaulins sold under the brand ‘Supreme 
Sathi’. It is expected to add value & differentiate it from 
competitor’s product.
Exports were down at the backdrop of steep increase in 
freight rates & Russia Ukraine crisis. The silver lining is that 
the Company has been able to make breakthrough in new 
markets during the year which could generate good export 
business in coming years. The thrust in the coming year 
will be on promoting non-Tarpaulin products, finding new 
applications, targeting new customers in existing markets 
& reaching new markets. To achieve these objectives, the 
Company is planning to take part in several exhibitions to 
show case its products. 
The Cross Plastic Film Project which was derailed due to 
pandemic is finally back on track. The drawings of various 
equipments are in the final stage of completion & orders 
for equipments may be placed very soon. The Company 
expects production of Cross Plastic to start in the first half 
of the next financial year. 
5. FINANCE
1. A brief on borrowing levels and finance cost is given 
below -:
1.1 Summary
Particulars Measure F.Y. 
2021-22
F.Y. 
2020-21
Net borrowing level at the 
end of the year
R in 
crores
Surplus 
of 
517.71 
Surplus 
of 
759.46 
Average Monthly Borrowings R in 
crores
 Surplus 
of 
308.52
 Surplus 
of 
247.94
Interest & finance charges R in 
crores
5.15 22.05
Average cost of borrowings 
at the end of the year
% p.a. N.A. N.A.
Financial cost as a % of 
Turnover
0.07% 0.35%
Interest Cover No. of 
Times
241 58
Total Net Debt : Equity Ratio N.A. N.A.
1.2 During the year under review the Company continued to 
remain debt free. The Company’s Capex and its working 
capital requirements have been largely funded through 
internal accruals. The excess cash accruals during the year 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 41
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
have been judiciously deployed from time to time in safe and 
secure Investment avenues with the objective of generating 
optimal returns while maintaining the assurance of liquidity 
at short notice.
2. Working Capital Borrowing
2.1 During the year under review, The Company continued 
its Multiple Banking Arrangement (MBA) with 9 banks, to 
meet its working capital requirements at optimum cost. 
The Company is thankful to its bankers for granting on 
fully unsecured basis, aggregate working capital facilities 
of R 1,445.90 crores which have been utilised moderately 
during the year. This shows the confidence reposed by all 
the Bankers on the Company and its management and their 
trust & commitment to provide unstinted support even 
during the challenging times. The Company’s established 
track record, robust operating margins, strong key financial 
ratios, absence of any long-term debt and adequate liquidity 
surplus, have enabled the Bankers to extend the favourable 
terms to the Company. 
2.2 The Company intends to use its surplus cash to continue 
to grow organically, while being open to explore the 
opportunities to grow inorganically through rightful 
acquisitions.
2.3 Increase in working capital utilisation
During the year under review the Company witnessed 
wide fluctuations in the Raw Material (Polymer) Prices. 
From initial trend of softening polymer prices, there was a 
steep increase in the Raw Material Prices by around 35% 
till mid-November. Then again prices fell by around 18% 
from mid-November till end January 2022 & again there 
was an increase of around 7% to 8% from February till end 
of March 2022. The same resulted in the large Inventories 
and increased book debts with the Company However, in 
view of the healthy cash flows, the Company could utilise 
its cash accruals to meet the increased working capital 
requirements as well as also plan its material procurement 
optimally, which resulted in uninterrupted production and 
supplies to its customers. The Company’s Working Capital 
Management involves well-organised processes which 
facilitate continuous monitoring & control over receivables, 
inventories & other parameters.
2.4 During the year under review, the Rupee also remained 
volatile against dollar. However due to its prudent and 
consistent hedging policy the Company has largely mitigated 
the risk arising out of Foreign Currency fluctuations and 
optimised its hedging costs.
3. Dealers’ Financing 
The Dealers’ Finance Scheme (DFS) provided by the bank 
to our Channel Partners are getting well recognised amongst 
them. During the year a few additional Channel partners 
have joined the Scheme, in view of competitive rate of 
interest & unsecured facilities offered by the bank. Seasonal 
/ peak business requirements are also being offered by the 
Bank, by providing temporary incremental limits. Extended 
credit terms were provided to the Channel Partners in 
challenging times during Covid-19 Pandemic. These facilities 
have become very helpful to The Company’s channel 
partners to meet their Normal/Additional working capital 
requirements at a competitive interest rates.
4. CRISIL Rating
As per the latest review conducted in the last quarter, (a) the 
Rating for the Company’s Short term bank facilities were 
reaffirmed at “CRISIL A1+” rating by CRISIL (which is the 
highest rating for the Short term instruments) and (b) Rating 
for Long Term Bank facilities were upgraded from “CRISIL 
AA Positive Outlook” to “CRISIL AA+ Stable”. The rating 
reflects the improvement in the business risk profile, driven 
by healthy pick-up in Sales and operating margin, increasing 
contribution of Value-added products backed by industry 
leading market position across segments and robust financial 
risk profile. 
5. Capital Expenditure
5.1. Considering optimistic business growth potential, the 
Company has incurred Capital Expenditure (capex) of 
R 259 crores, during the year under review. The entire 
capex has been incurred towards ramping up the capacities 
in plastic piping system, introduction of new products in 
various business segments, automation and replacing some 
old production equipment with new technology machines. 
Company has also incurred capex for increasing captive 
generation capacity of solar energy apart from balancing 
equipment at various locations. The entire capex has been 
funded through internal accruals only. 
5.2 The Company has plans to commit capex of about R 700 
Crores including carry forward commitments of R 280 Crs. at 
the beginning of the year. The committed / proposed capex 
is primarily for -:
a) To complete and put into operation the on- going 
project work at Assam to manufacture PVC Pipes and 
Roto & Blow Moulded products.
b) Putting up a plastic product complex near Cuttack in 
Odisha & near Erode in Tamilnadu where work is going 
on in full swing. 1st phase at both the sites is likely to 
go into production by August-September, 2022.
c) To double the capacity of Composite LPG cylinders to 1 
million pcs. Per annum at existing site at Halol, Gujarat.
d) Establishing additional capacity to manufacture olefin 
Fittings and to put PEX Piping System at Jadcherla.
e) Expanding capacities and product range of its bath 
fitting products at Puducherry.
f) Adding varieties of new injection moulded fitting 
products in its plastic Piping products.
g) To add new models of Injection moulded furniture, 
Crates & pallets in the Company’s range of furniture 
and Material Handling Products.
h) To increase capacities of Industrial Component 
moulding at various locations in view of increased 
business opportunities.
i) To add necessary equipment at its Protective Packaging 
and performance packaging division.
j) To install Rooftop Solar energy generation plants at its 
various locations.
k) To install balancing equipment at various locations.
6. Cash Surplus
The Company envisages healthy liquidity surplus in view 
of better realizations, increased share of value added 
products & increase in its market reach across segments. The 
Company shall continue to meet all its Capex and working 
capital requirements from internal accruals and to remain 
debt-free in medium terms.
The Company’s persistent focus shall remain in, cost control 
and cost reduction, tight monitoring of working capital and 
better treasury Management through deployment of funds 
prudently.
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
42 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
6. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM & RISK MITIGATION
The Company has adequate internal audit and control 
systems. Internal auditors comprising of professional firms 
of Chartered Accountants have been entrusted with the 
job to conduct regular internal audits and risk based audits 
at all units/ locations and report to the management the 
lapses, if any. Both internal auditors and statutory auditors 
independently evaluate the adequacy of internal control 
system. Based on the audit observations and suggestions, 
follow up, remedial measures are being taken including 
review and increase in the scope of coverage, if necessary. 
The Audit Committee of Directors, in its periodical meetings, 
review the adequacy of internal control systems and 
procedures and suggest areas of improvements.
The Company has undertaken a detailed exercise to revisit its 
control systems in technical and other non-financial areas to 
align them properly with Management Information Systems 
(MIS) to make MIS more efficient and result oriented. 
Information technology base created by the Company over 
the period is providing a very useful helping hand in the 
process. Needless to mention, that ensuring maintenance of 
proper accounting records, safeguarding assets against loss 
and misappropriation, compliance of applicable laws, rules 
and regulations and providing reasonable assurance against 
fraud and errors will continue to remain central point of the 
entire control systems.
Cybersecurity is a concern for everyone today, from 
organisations to individuals. Organizations focus on physical 
and information security, due to regulatory requirements, the 
value of data in the current times and the risks of a security 
compromise. 
The Company has its well-defined policy to protect the 
infrastructure and secure its information. The policy clearly 
stands to safeguard all information in the interest of the 
Company. The Company has a robust security mechanism 
designed to defend and protect its infrastructure from any 
external threat or vulnerability.
All applications, critical end points and servers have their 
backup scheduled automatically at regular intervals on 
to The Company NAS Appliance. Company’s Network is 
secured with “Enterprise Edition Next Generation Firewall” 
installed at its primary/production datacentre as well as 
secondary/DR datacentres. 
The Company uses robust endpoint protection EDR system 
and User’s access to data or appliance or Infrastructure is 
controlled with Authentication and Authorization using 
active directory (AD), which is a secured and standard 
method. Central Database has high availability; Disaster 
recovery is in place for SAP infrastructure with regular DR 
drills.
Keeping in mind the ever expanding cyber threat landscape, 
Company has designed a robust, 100% uptime and real-time 
monitoring. This includes state of the art technology, a multivendor environment like Fortigate, Cisco, Citrix SD-WAN, 
HP-Aruba, and Nutanix.
Company has initiated projects on AI ML based SoC (Security 
operations Centre) while Network Operations Centre (NoC) 
is already functional. 
7. HUMAN RESOURCES
The Company has been very proactive to support its entire 
work force at all the levels in best possible manner especially 
during the Covid-19 pandemic period. The Company 
has disbursed salaries and wages during entire lockdown 
period to its staff, associates and contract workforce. The 
Company has provided healthcare facilities and medical 
reimbursements to the employees who were infected 
with Covid – 19. It also supported financially by allowing 
disbursement of full salaries during the entire duration 
of medical treatment. Few of the casualties amongst the 
employees was a matter of great pain and concern. The 
Company has promised to take care of the children’s 
education apart from providing one-time financial assistance 
to the family of deceased employees.
The Company has also developed its infrastructure and 
facilities by which many employees are able to work from 
home. The Company has also advised all its sales force to 
travel through safest mode and take all precautions for safe 
and comfortable journey. This has helped the Company to 
continue to provide efficient services to all its stakeholders 
during the entire period marred by pandemic Covid-19.
The focus of your Company is to ensure that young talent 
is nurtured and mentored consistently, that rewards and 
recognition are commensurate with performance and that 
employees have the opportunity to develop and grow.
Human resource is considered as key to the future growth 
strategy of the Company and looks upon to focus its efforts 
to further align human resource policies, processes and 
initiatives to meet its business needs. In order to focus on 
keeping employees abreast of technological and technical 
developments, the Company provides opportunity for 
training and learning within the country and abroad. Your 
Company strongly believes in fostering a culture of trust and 
mutual respect in all its employees and seeks to ensure that 
core values and principles of the company are understood 
by all and are the reference point in all people matters.
Industrial relations at all the units and locations are cordial. 
Cautionary Statement
Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis describing 
the Company’s objectives, expectations or predictions may be 
forward looking within the meaning of applicable securities, 
laws and regulations. Actual results may differ materially from 
those expressed in the statement. Important factors that would 
influence the Company’s operations include cost of raw materials, 
tax laws, interest and power cost and economic developments 
particularly in view of ongoing pandemic COVID 19 and such 
other factors within the country and the international economic 
and financial developments.