Management Discussion and Analysis
1. OVERVIEW
There were far reaching structural reforms implemented in the
Indian economy in the last seventeen months starting from
November 2016. In the process these measures have put the
economy on sound growth path. They augur well to put the
economy in high growth mode in future.
The most significant reform was introduction of Goods and
Service Tax w.e.f 1.7.2017. This single measure has integrated
the Country’s economy. Overall, the incidence of indirect tax
has come down on most of the products by this measure of
merging several indirect taxes and cess charged on the products
in different States prior to July 2017.
The streamlining of GST implementation and Tax rates took
some time. That has created upheaval in 1st half of last year.
For your Company’s business, the introduction of Realty
Estate regulation Act (RERA) has also affected growth of piping
business in Housing Sector for several months.
The several initiatives taken by Government to boost rural
income and infrastructure are now fructifying to boost business
in several segments which are catered by the Company . The
Company, therefore, envisaged a faster growth in business
from April 2018 and beyond. On the basis of the promising
future demand growth, the Company started committing larger
investments during the year than planned at beginning of the
year.
Due to hardening of Polymer Prices and lack of new capacity
build up of the PVC resin all around the world, the PVC
prices have moved to higher band. For the year 2018-19, it is
expected that the PVC price trend will remain on higher side.
In spite of increase in Crude prices, the prices of Polythene
will move to a lower level over the year as several new plants
are starting in USA based on the low feed stock cost of Shale
gas. Overall, the polymer prices will remain affordable.
The effect of Demonetization , GST and RERA looks to have
settled down to a large extent. The economy is moving to
formal sector slowly, but surely from informal sector. This
augurs well to boost the economic activity in the Country. The
initial forecast for Monsoon this year is also normal. Company,
therefore, expects business conditions to be favorable in the
year to boost the demand for it’s products.
The Company expects to put two new Greenfield plants
in production this year – one at Telangana and another at
Rajasthan. The Company’s additional construction of buildings
in existing plants and start up of production at those sites will
also go in production this year at Malanpur, Khopoli, Hosur
and Kharagpur.
The Company intends to start two new plants at Andhra
Pradesh and Assam. Land acquisition process has started. They
may partially go into production next year.
The Company’s units to make up automobile products at
Khuskhera has been put in JV with a Japanese Company. The
Company may divest it’s small holding in that Unit within 2-3
years after start up of this J.V
2. PRODUCT GROUPS
The product groups of the Company have been recast as
follows:
Group Products
Plastics
Piping
System
uPVC Pipes, Injection Moulded PVC fittings and
handmade fittings, Polypropylene Random Copolymer
pipe system, HDPE Pipe Systems, CPVC Pipes
Systems, Inspection Chambers, manholes, Toilets Bath
fittings, Roto moulded Tanks and Fittings and Solvents
Consumer
products
Furniture
Industrial
Products
Industrial Components, Material handling System and
Pallets – Roto moulded crates,pallets and garbage bins
Packaging
Products
Flexible packaging film products, Protective Packaging
Products, Cross Laminated Film products
Composite
Products
Composite LPG Cylinders,
PRODUCT GROUP WISE SHARE IN TURNOVER FOR
THE LAST TWO YEARS (% OF VALUE)
Plastics
Piping
System
55.66%
Composite
Cylinders
0.03%
Packaging
Products
20.81%
Industrial
Products
16.32%
Consumer
Products
7.18%
2017-18
Industrial Products
14.19%
Packaging
Products
22.32%
Consumer
Products
Plastics Piping 7.17%
System 56.12%
2016-17
Composite
Cylinders 0.20%
The net turnover (including other income) of the Company
for the year under review was R 4983.80.Crores (including
R 65.77 Crores by way of trading in other related products
and R 24.28 crores from sale of Premises) as against R 4469.79
crores (including R 64.78 Crores by way of trading in other
related products ) during the previous year.
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED n 41
The Company has sold 3,71,176 tons of Plastic products as
against 3,40,906 tons of Plastic products in the corresponding
period of previous year, reflecting a growth of 9% in product
turnover by volume.
The Company exported goods worth US $ 16.93 . million as
against US $ 13.50 million during the corresponding period
of the previous year.
Profit before interest, depreciation and exceptional items and
taxes during the period under review have been at R 804.31
crores as against R 769.61 crores during the previous year.
3. COMPANY’S STRENGTH AND GROWTH DRIVERS
3.1 M anufacturing Sites
The Company is operating from 25 manufacturing sites
operating in 11States and Union Territories. The Company
intends to start working on two new sites to put up plant in the
current year. It is expected that the Company will be finalizing
the location in Andhra Pradesh and Assam during this year and
start activities to put up the plants.
3.2 Distribution network
Your Company is committed to increase its reach throughout
the country. To attain this objective, the Company has added
further distributors in the past year. The distributors strength
has gone up to 3303.Nos by the end of March 2018 compared
to 2973 nos by March 2017.
Wherever the Company could not find suitable distributors
to buy and stock Company’s products for re-distribution
throughout the retail chain of that area, the Company started
selling products directly to big retailers in that area. Selectively,
the Company has strengthened it’s supply system to service
those retailers in a cost efficient manner. The Company started
this only very selectively.
Your Company’s Supreme brand is now registered with a
punch line “ Supreme – People who know plastics best.”
3.3 Growth Drivers
Your Company is strengthening its brand in Two ways. One by
increasing expenditure on Advertisement through Electronic,
Print media and participating in several Exhibitions in India
and abroad along with large meets of plumbers, Dealers,
Retailers and Architects. The Company participated in several
exhibitions in India and internationally last year. Secondly
Company is taking legal recourse to contain counterfeit
products in Plastics pipe System, XF Products and Furniture.
Company assiduously works to address this menace.
4. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
4.1 Plastics Piping Systems
The Company continues its objective to grow in Plastic Pipe
System business. The company is leader in this segment as it has
the largest portfolio of products, which is being continuously
increased, to offer more systems as required in the economy.
The introduction of GST regime in the country augured well
for growth of this business. There is likelihood of shift in
business from unorganized players to organized players over
the period. This is expected to lead to growth in the business
of your Company in forthcoming years.
The Company during the year under review registered an over
all revenue growth of 10% in Plastic Piping System made from
different plastic materials. Overall the company sold 2,56,330
Tons of Pipe System compared to 2,35,256 Tons in same period
of last year.
The growth in the business was not upto Company’s
expectation. GST introduction has put damper in Agri market
requirement in April/June. Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA)
to regulate the Housing Sector has slowed down the demand
from this sector for quite a period.
The Government at the Centre and States has put the priority
focus on Swatch Bharat Abhiyan, Sanitation and affordable
houses to all and development of 100 smart cities on all
India basis. Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA) has created a
major transformation the way housing construction for sale
was in vogue in the Country. It affected the business growth
in Housing in the year under review. The growth tempo has
now started and the Company expects good demand coming
from this segment in this year.
The Company incurred Capex of R 144 crore in this year in it’s
various plants to build more capacities and increase product
range. Majority of them has been put to use .
The Company with objective of making its footprint for
manufacturing at South Zone, for Plastic Piping Division,
has got 50 acres of land allotted at Jadcherla-District
Mahaboobnagar at Telangana. The civil construction work
has started and production of Water & Septic Tanks is likely to
start in October/December ’2018. The Company will launch
other Piping System products at this location in next one/ two
year. The Company has entered into a MOU with the State
Government of Andhra Government to put up a project at
Nellore district. Efforts are being made to acquire the required
land of approx. 40 acres to start the manufacturing there. The
Company aims to start production at the same site in second
half of 2019-2020.
The plant at Kharagpur is fully operational. The capacity
increase for PVC,HDPE & CPVC Pipes is now in place and
become operational. The Company is also exploring further
increasing the capacity of HDPE Pipe at Kharagpur plant to
cater to increased demand.
To meet the increasing demand of HDPE Pipes in North India,
the Company has taken in hand to put up the capacity in
Malanpur Unit No.3. The same will go in production in July/
September 2018 quarter.
Another Roto Moulding plant is now operational at Kharagpur.
The enhanced capacity at Gadegaon facility for Roto Moulded
Products is made operational. The capacity of Roto Moulded
Products is being planned to increase at Malanpur and Kanpur
plant.
The production of Double Wall Corrugated HDPE Pipes
has started from Gadegaon plant with BIS Certification. The
company has also started commercial production of Double
Wall Corrugated HDPE Pipes at Kharagpur. At Kharagpur the
BIS certification for Pipes up to diameter of 500 mm is received
and for balance sizes of 600 mm and 800 mm diameter is
likely to be received shortly.
42 n THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
The company introduced 195 nos. of variety of Injection
Moulded Pipe fittings during 2017-18. They all have been well
received in the market. The sale of moulded fittings increased
by 6% in volume terms during the year under review. The
Company has plan of introducing further new items during
the year as per system requirement.
The Company manufactures the cPVC Pipes at three of
its manufacturing location and cPVC Fittings at two of its
manufacturing locations. The Company has planned further
expansion of CPVC System manufacturing at it’s existing plants.
The total product portfolio in Pipe System has reached 7730
nos., thus adding 500 products to the range of various Plastic
Piping System.
The AQUAKRAFT Bath Fittings introduced by the company
is well established now including newly launched Chrome
Plated range. There were 11 new items introduced during the
year. The portfolio in Bath Fittings has reached to 100 items.
For test market, Company also imported 16 variety of Bath
Fittings to service local market. The Company plans to further
complement the range during 2018-19 by introducing large
varieties of products in Bath fittings.
The Company’s business to Export market during the year saw
a growth of 48% in US $ terms. The company is continuously
trying to boost its export business of Piping Systems.
The Division’s Value Added Products sale was 31.76%. The
company has also added further 68 direct business Channel
partners during the year taking the total to 984 Nos.. The
Company continues to expand its reach by appointing
Distributors in areas where there is a gap. The company has
also started directly servicing retailers in selected markets.
The Company has now multiple Knowledge Centres across
the country to facilitate the services locally. At Gadegaon for
the customers of Western India, at Kochi for the customers of
Southern India, at Malanpur for customers of Northern India
and at Kharagpur for customers of Eastern India.
Although Company’s CPVC Fire Sprinkler System is approved
by Bureau of Indian Standard (BIS) and is also Underwriters
Laboratories (UL) listed, still the Company needs product
approval to install in Residential /Commercial Buildings.
There is no single authority to approve the product and every
State Government has their own rules and regulations to be
followed in their States. Certain states got Central Authority
called “Director Fire Services” and the approval is acceptable
to all the Fire Officers and Fire stations within their States.
But in certain States the Company has to seek approval from
every Chief Fire Officer of a city which has status of Municipal
Corporation. Seeking approval is a time consuming process.
Thus the growth in this segment will be slow though it is
internationally proven a better system than metal Fire Sprinkler
System for Horizontal Application.
The BIS has not yet published the standard for CPVC Fire
Sprinkler Fittings and also many amendments to IS- 15105,
which is a standard for design and installation of Fire Sprinkler
System. Although National Building Code 2016 has been
published the implementation part has still not gathered pace.
As a result the awareness about mandatory installation of CPVC
Fire Sprinkler System in High-rise Residential Apartments as
well as Commercial buildings is not catching the momentum.
The Company is putting lot of efforts in creating awareness
about it’s products by meeting various Developers, Consultants
and Installers in all the major Metropolitan and Tier-I cities. As
a result of these efforts the Company could install this system
at Mumbai, Pune and Goa locations for many upcoming Highrise
Buildings. These installations will work as a showcase to
present it to future buyers, consultants and installers.
The installers who did the mock-up installations are truly
satisfied. They see tremendous benefit because of ease and
speed of installation while using this product. They have
confirmed that the speed of installation is four times faster
than the earlier metal installations and the skill requirement
is less as no welding or threading operations are involved.
The Company has developed moulds for fast running fittings
and the samples are already under testing with Underwriters
Laboratories (UL). This will enhance Company’s efficiency in
delivering the products to the end users with speed.
The Company has started participating in various “Fire and
Safety” Exhibitions in India as well as abroad as part of
promotional activities. This is helping in creating awareness to
‘Supreme Flameguard’ Brand . The Company is getting good
response from Indian as well as Overseas buyers.
Apart from installation in India the Company has supplied it’s
products to a hotel project in Sri Lanka and to a renowned
distributor in Philippines.
The Company expects that most of the regulatory approvals
will be over and indigenous development of products should
be complete during the current Calendar year. The business
may catch momentum from the second half of the current
financial year.
To support environment concern the Company is gearing up
to meet with National Green Tribunal and court directive of
phasing out Lead stabilizers from manufacturing of different
types of u PVC Pipes. The Company is planning a phased
out schedule for different variety of PVC Pipes having Lead
stabilizers to produce with Lead free stabilizers.
4.2 Consumer Products
4.2.1 FURNITURE
The business during the year had a good growth. The company
grew by 11 % on value terms and 8 % on volume terms where
as the overall Plastic Furniture Industry grew by only 4 % on
value terms. The company faced initial hiccups in business with
GST regime. Sales in First Quarter were extremely sluggish due
to introduction of GST and reduction in pipeline inventory
with trade channels. Further, the GST rate which was kept at
28 % in the beginning had an adverse effect on the business.
However, reduction in GST rate from 28 % to 18 % gave boost
to the business and the growth in second half of 2017-18 was
a healthy 16% on value terms. The company believes that with
reduction in GST rate & effective compliance, the share of
organized players should increase in overall plastic furniture
business over the period.
The company currently manufactures Injection Moulded
Furniture & Blow Moulded Furniture. It has 5 units
manufacturing Injection Moulded Furniture across the country
at Puducherry (UT), Durgapur (West Bengal), Derabassi
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED n 43
(Punjab), Gadegaon (Maharashtra) & Guwahati (Assam) to
cater effectively different regions of the country. The company
has also started manufacturing Blow Moulded Tables at its
Kharagpur (West Bengal) plant. The company is putting up a
Green Field Plant at Jadcherla ( Telangana ) for manufacture
of Injection Moulded Furniture for increasing its market share
in Southern India. The company believes the new plant will
also be a good feeder unit for all other parts of the country
due to its central location and good connectivity. The plant
is likely to go in production by third quarter of this year and
contribute to growth in last two quarters.
The growth in company’s business is primarily attributed to
its continuing focus on increasing its distribution set up and
delivering high quality product & service to its customers. The
company’s furniture is currently available to its customers
through nationwide network of around 11,000 retailers .The
company has established itself as a premium brand amongst
its trade channel and customers due to its continuous focus
on Quality, innovation and wide range of products. During the
year, the company increased its strength of channel partners
from 814 Nos. to 900 Nos. and continues to increase its
presence in the unrepresented areas.
The company’s new product line of Blow Moulded Tables
has been well received by customers and is considered as top
class in Quality. At present, the company is offering Tables in
8 Sizes and will be adding 4 more sizes by end of September
2018. The company also plans to develop more products to
cater different market segments.
The product line requires intensive marketing combined
with education about its benefits vis a vis other conventional
wooden tables and the company hopes to grow in 2018-19
in this segment primarily from domestic market. The export
potential for this product line is big. The Company’s quality
of product is far superior comparable to competitive products
in the world market. Once the range becomes large and get
well established in domestic market , then the Company aims
to launch it’s product in international markets.
The company introduced 7 new furniture models during
the year. The Fusion Series of Cupboards found very high
acceptance amongst the customers due to its unique aesthetic
deign. The company also launched its two seater rattan finish
Love Seat Sofa which made an ideal combination with its fast
selling model Cambridge Chair and Vegas Center Table . The
complete set has been well appreciated in domestic as well as
International Market. All the new models introduced during
the year were well appreciated and the company hopes to get
good growth from its new introductions.
The company continues to focus on developing its export
market and has found good acceptance by various customers.
The company has now started exports to Twelve countries and
hopes to grow substantially from this segment. The Company
participates in several exhibitions to promote it’s quality
products.
4.3 Industrial Products
4.3.1 Industrial Components
The year started against the backdrop of improved business
sentiments resulting from gradual economic recovery because
of various reforms initiated by the government. Demand revival
took momentum in various segments including Automotive
and Consumer Durable sector in which the Division has major
business portfolio. At the beginning of the year, the Division
had projected growth of 20% and 12% in Value and Volume
terms in both the sectors put together. The initial negative effect
of major economic Structural Reforms like Demonetization
and GST having faded, demand progressively picked up
in all segments of Automobile sector like 2 Wheeler/3
Wheeler, Cars/SUVs and Commercial Vehicles and in White
Goods like washing Machines, Refrigerators and other home
appliances. The good monsoon also helped demand boost in
Automotive and Appliances. Division grew by 31% and 18%
respectively in Volume and Value terms over previous year.
With microeconomic parameters encouraging, GST getting
stabilized and improved confidence in economy, the Company
expects further expansion in demand which should pave the
way for further growth during the current year.
Noida Plant revenue had improved significantly during the
year under review and grew by 46% . Noida plant improved
its customer base to have sizable spread in non-Appliances to
counter seasonal demand volatility. Hence plant could achieve
fairly uniform production with low level of volatility. Demand
for AC segment improved considerably showing healthy
growth. Company expects AC segment to grow significantly
and concentrating on new customer development in this
product line. In order to meet improved demand of one of
Company’s major AC customer and reduce logistics cost for
the customer, company decided to put up a new plant at
Ghiloth, Rajasthan and started the project work in full swing.
The project is already at last leg of completion and expected
to go in production in April-June, quarter. With the continued
efforts in developing new Business Mix, company expects
steady growth at Noida plant in future. Lot of steps were taken
to carry out layout changes and many other improvements to
make the plant future ready as the plant is three decade old
and was requiring revamp. During the year, the Plant cleared
Initial Assessment and Final Audit for TPM Excellence by JIPM
(Japan Institute of Plant Maintenance). The Plant received the
prestigious Award of TPM Excellence during the year. The
movement will be accelerated further to next level during the
years to come.
Auto Business in the western India which started showing
recovery during FY 16-17 accelerated further during FY17-18
improving revenue of Talegaon Plant resulting in robust growth
of 58% in sales revenue. The business of some automotive
models, which were acquired during previous years from the
major customer Tata Motors, started showing demand pick
up. Supply of Cockpit Assembly which started for the LCV/
MCV Model ‘Ultra’ of Tata Motors; during previous year,
ramped up considerably and is expected to improve further
during coming years. The New 2 Wheeler model SR 150
and the existing Vespa together registered better demand
improving revenue of Talegaon plant. Plant Capacity Utilization
improved significantly. Company is aggressively focusing to
improve business at Talegaon by strengthening its Business
Development cell.
Khushkhera Plant sales revived and grew by 8%. Supplies
have been successfully established for one of the prestigious
44 n THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
SUV model of Honda Car, WR-V. Development is on for
several other models for Maruti Suzuki and Honda. Company
has been continuously exploring good business opportunities
from Maruti, Honda and other tier one customers in many of
their new models. However, it is felt that Company needs to
strengthen its capabilities and reorganize not only a component
supplier but also to become complete source of supply right
from designing, development to supply of products which can
be done effectively by the Company having such technical
strength and capabilities.
Keeping the same in mind,Company has entered into a
joint venture with Kumi Kasei Co., Ltd (Kumi), a company
incorporated in Japan, to set up a new entity by the name of
Kumi Supreme India Private Limited (JVC). Kumi is a major
supplier to Honda for many interior parts for automotive
application all over the world. They have been Company’s
Technology Partner for the last six years for Company’s
automotive supplies to Honda in India. The JVC would take
over Khushkhera plant operations as a going concern on a
slump sale basis. Transaction is likely to be completed by
30th June, 2018. This Joint Venture may further improve
technological competence of the Auto Comp Business and
will help in strengthening Company’s relationship with all it’s
customers.
Business opportunities are encouraging for Chennai Plant.
Plant registered growth of only 4% as company couldn’t grab
the business opportunities due to capacity constraints in the
plant. Currently plant is running at its optimum capacity.
Company is now in the process of acquiring land adjacent to
its existing facility, which will be used for expanding the plant.
Company plans to expand and increase the plant capacity to
facilitate acquiring future opportunities. Bosch has set up its
huge manufacturing facility in India, at Chennai and would be
launching various other Home Appliance products during next
few years. Company expects good growth with this customer
in years to come. The prospects in automotive sector for this
unit are looking bright and it is expected to form a significant
portion of plant revenue. Company has planned to realign its
Customer-Mix for more productive capacity utilization.
Pondy Plant achieved a healthy volume growth of about 40%
driven by good demand for Whirlpool Washing Machines.
Value growth was close to 50% mainly due to product-Mix.
The drive is taken to improve the operations further to
enhance productivity, Quality, Cost Optimization, and Skills
up gradation to meet increased demand from customers and
stay competitive. The Company expects business to grow
with it’s major customer during the years to come. Realizing
the opportunities company has planned both Capacity and
Capability enhancement at Pondy by taking series of actions.
Company has initiated some layout changes for optimum
utilization of space, improving safety standards and augmenting
plant capacity.
Durgapur Plant also achieved healthy value and volume
growth of 28% and 15% respectively due to maturation of the
new businesses acquired during previous year and the current
year. Company had added a customer in TIER 1 category
to Auto Major TML during previous year. The sale to this
Company significantly grew and is a major contributor to the
growth of the plant. Company expects better growth during
this year from all the customers of this plant. Company has
planned major layout changes in the plant to improve overall
operations. Also, company has planned to initiate drive to
work for TPM Excellence.
Company has taken drive to rationalize and reorient the
machine capacities at its various locations to align it with the
changed Product- Mix. While doing so, the new machines
and equipment being added are equipped with the latest
Technology, Energy efficient, designed for Good repeatability
for better quality and improved productivity. Wherever feasible
and cost-effective, Automation is being considered to for
better productivity and quality. All these initiatives will ensure
enhanced Quality, Productivity, Safety, Energy conservation
and Cost optimization. It is helping us to negate the impact
of inflation due to various manufacturing cost increases and
cost reductions required to be given year on year to customers
to remain competitive. The various such initiatives of the
Company would support Environment and help Go Green.
Continuous focus on employee engagement initiatives is
helping company to enhance its Human Capital. Company is
envisaging certain fast track initiatives under HR Umbrella to
enhance skilling of its human resource to improve its capability
to meet future needs of Digital Manufacturing.
Overall rating of the Company by its customers meets or
exceeds their expectations. Company is considered a highly
dependable and valuable supplier. Company received
various Awards and Recognitions from time to time from its
customers for its support in Quality, Cost, Delivery and New
product development, Overall Support, Best Practices etc. All
employees are constantly re-oriented to ensure utmost focus
on Customer Satisfaction.
The Journey towards excellence is being cultivated as a
culture and will be continuous. Efforts are being accelerated to
increase customer and product base, bring in new technology,
Automation, Effective cost management to ensure sustained
growth with profits.
4.3.2 M aterial Handling Products
The year started at the backdrop of demonetization and
commencement of the GST regime from the end of 1st quarter,
the effects of these were witnessed by the Material Handling
Division also in the first half and the business started improving
from then on.
The Crate Division has shown a volume growth of 18%.
The Company’s Crates are used in various segments which
includes Automobile, FMCG, White Goods, Engineering, Retail
sectors.
Company also provides customized solution by fabrication to
it’s valued customers. This business has shown healthy growth
of 30%.
The Company’s customers are appreciative of the quality of
the products.
Company’s Crate business has been decreasing in Dairy
and fruits and vegetables segment. This is mainly due to
abundant use of reprocessed material by many players in these
applications. Company is able to participate only where good
quality products are required.
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED n 45
Injection Moulded Pallet business has achieved volume growth
of 12%.
Company has developed some new products which should
get better response from the customers.
MHD products made by Roto Moulding has also shown good
growth of 20% over last year. Company is planning to enhance
capacity for Roto Moulded products of this Division.
Bottle crates for soft drinks did not perform well. This business
is mainly dependent on two major soft drink players.
The products for garbage handling is on the increase due to
Swatch Bharat Mission of Central Government. Company will
introduce new products in this segments.
MHD Products were made at different locations which helps
Company to serve the customers at competitive prices and
timely delivery.
Company is setting up a new complex at Jadcherla in
Telangana. Products for Material Handling Division also will
be produced at that site.
Company is hopeful of achieving better growth in this Division
in the current year.
4.4 Packaging Products
4.4.1 Packaging Films
The performance films division was running at full capacity
last year as well as in the year under review. Therefore there
was no growth possible in the year under review.
Overall sale was 7454 tons in the year under review vis a vis
7596 tons in the previous year. The sales in value term dropped
from R 129.40 Crores to R 125.31 Crores . This was due to fall
in raw material prices as well as drop in selling price.
During the year under review, exports stood at 1659 tons as
against 1028 tons in corresponding period of previous year.
The company’s thrust on export resulted in robust growth of
61 % in volume. This trend will continue with addition of new
customers in several geographies.
The customers of the Company have shown confidence in the
quality of Company’s films and service.
The division’s sales have been consistent and customer base
could be maintained by virtue of quality of products & high
service standards. As the capacity of the division remains fully
utilised, the division has committed an investment of R 41
crores to expand its capacity at existing Khopoli unit.. The
same may go in production in Jan/March 2019 quarter. This
will increase the capacity by around 5000 Tons per annum.
4.4.2 Protective packaging division (PPD)
Protective packaging division (PPD) recorded 16% growth in
value & 17.5% in volume during the year under review. The
total sale was 23335 tons against 19853 tons last year
Overall packaging business was good during the year under
review. The de-growth of the business of insulation grade
cross-linked polyethylene foam has continued, as more
competitors entered the business during the year. Most of the
manufacturers are supplying substandard products against
their own declared specifications. The division has taken up
a challenge to build quality awareness among the customers
and approving authorities by several modes of communication.
This is however a long drawn process. NBR sheet plant has
commenced production in the first week of April after a delay
of over 4 months due to delayed supply of equipments. This
will enhance Company’s product offering for insulation range
of products. However competition may remain fierce in the
coming year.
Many of the civil projects are getting restarted and it is expected
that the demand will improve for the DURA range of products
in the current year.
The market response for the new ranges of products like
children education toys, sports, health sector, & interiors which
were launched last year has been encouraging. A wide range
of interlock mats are now well established in the market. The
division is also developing sport specific certified interlock
mats.
The division is now an approved vendor of Decathlon, a
leading global sports goods retailer, for yoga mats. Several
other products are in the pipeline for approval.
The acoustic range of products haven’t picked up as well as
expected, due to the limited availability of NBR bonded block
foam and some technical issues related to the other range of
products. The division is expecting a good growth of business
of this vertical during the year due to enhanced availability of
the NBR bonded block foam.
Hosur unit I & 2 will be merged alongwith the expansion at
unit 2 & is expected to go in full production by August 2018.
Unit 1 operation will then be shut down. The company would
divest the land & building of this unit thereafter.
The production capacity of Kharagpur unit will be enhanced
by 2600 MTPA during the current year by constructing a new
building and addition of Cross Linked Foam products.
The division is also doing the feasibility study for enhancing
production capacity at Malanpur.
The division has started work at the Jadcherla complex which
is being set up. Production should start in the last quarter of
the financial year 2018-19.
The division has also decided to establish more fabrication
facilities including expansion of existing ones at different
locations to capture high value added fabrication business.
The division has also started getting good demand of civil and
insulation range of products from the middle-east market.
There would be a significant growth of exports in the coming
year. Present production capacity of 28,600 tons will increase
to 38,500 TPA without considering Jadcherla and Malanpur
expansion.
Packaging
Packaging vertical grew by 20.08% in value and 21% in volume
as against last year. Enhanced productivity & improved quality
standards have been achieved by re-engineering of existing
equipment/equipments resulting in growth of business. The
R & D team is also working on developments of new variants
of polyethylene foam range of products which are application
specific.
46 n THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
The new bubble plant which was installed last year at Hosur
unit has been modified for the production of new range of
composite products which was not possible earlier in any of
our existing equipments. The Company expects good growth
in the premium range of products during the year. Business
of two stage block foam which was sluggish over the past few
years is now picking up and it is expected that the capacity
will be well utilized in the current year.
Business of EVA foam moulded products has not yet started.
Several products for the sports & health sector have been
identified & will be launched by the end of 1st quarter. Further
products would be added in the year.
Civil
Business grew by 9.18% value and 1.55% by volume in the
current year. The division has been awarded BIS certification
for its DURA HD 100 for expansion joint application. Demand
for DURA range of products is now increasing for the business
in project based business. To cater the demand, the division
is planning to expand cross-linked block foamed production
capacity at various locations. The division is also working
on development of new range of civil products which are
application oriented and a cost effective solution to the
customers.
Insulation
The growth of Insulation division was 7.29% in value & 3.51%
in volume. As informed earlier, several new competitors
entered the business simultaneously & dropped prices
inappropriately while compromising on desired quality
standards. This had severely impacted Company’s business &
profitability. However, constant efforts to sell products based
on required quality standards has started to yield results. NBR
sheet plant will expand existing portfolio of products in this
vertical.
Technology
The Technical team of the division has been working on
innovative ideas to develop new products, new applications, &
upgrading of existing processing facilities and other segments.
The Company’s innovative & light weight products have been
beneficial to industry & the society at large
The Indian Green Building Council ( IGBC ) has certified all of
Company’s insulation range of products. The division has also
received 8th Plasticon Award in the category of “Innovation in
Polymer Waste Management and Recycling Technology” on
the bonded block foam.
4.4.3 Cross Laminated Film
The Business of Cross Laminated film and products had a
de-growth during the year which witnessed slow down in
economy in the first half due to roll out of Goods & Service
Tax (GST). Several new players have also entered this business
in the country claiming to make similar products like our
Company. Combination of these two factors have affected the
volume & margins in this segment of business.
Prior to launch of GST on 1st July, 2017 there was lot of
confusion, particularly amongst the traders, regarding eligibility
of credit of duties paid on purchase of goods which remained
in stock on the date of GST implementation. Most of the
company’s dealers curtailed purchases to maintain stocks at
a very low level. This adversely impacted sale of company’s
products during the first quarter of the year which are supposed
to be the peak months for the sale of tarpaulins. In the GST
regime, the company’s main product tarpaulin was placed
initially in the highest rate bracket i.e. 28%. This made the
product costly to the end users. After lot of representations
at various forums the GST rate on tarpaulin was reduced
from 28% to 18% but in the meantime company lost sizeable
business. Though the sales picked up from September
onwards, the loss of sales during the first five months could
not be recouped.
There was small growth in the 35GSM Silpoly Liner business.
The company is promoting this product in newer applications
with positive response.
As per the prediction of India Meteorological Department
the 2018 monsoon is expected to be normal brightening
the chances of recovery in the farm sector & growth in rural
economy. This may boost the demand for Company’s products,
most of which find application in agriculture sector.
The company is hopeful of getting increased foothold in the
USA market in the coming years. The company is working on
developing specialized new applications to increase the size
of market. The company aims to bringing in new customers
in its fold in the existing markets & reaching out new markets
where at present it does not have any presence by show casing
its products in various international exhibitions.
With enhanced capacity at its disposal the company has made
Cross Line (XL) Bonded Film available in almost all thicknesses.
This product has superior properties than the normal XF Film
& enjoys patent protection. The company has now acquired
all the rights in the patents of Cross Line Bonded Film from
the technical collaborator. This will bring in lot of savings in
the royalties in the coming years as the sale of this product is
expected to grow.
In the coming year the thrust will be on developing newer
applications and entering into several international markets.
The company has developed many new fabricated products
apart from Tarpaulin. Due to its superior properties it is
getting increased acceptance in different applications. The
company has successfully introduced this product in different
applications by laminating the film with other substrate.
The technical collaborator of the company is working in
tandem with the prospective customers of Cross Plastic Film
to perfect the product in all respects. Once the product is
perfected the company will be putting up plant to manufacture
this product at its Muvala plant.
4.5 Construction Business
The company has developed Commercial Premises viz
“Supreme Chambers” with a view to monetize the land parcel
where its first own manufacturing unit was functional. The
building was completed in 2010-2011 and all permissions are
in place including Occupation Certificate.
The aforesaid commercial premises is marvelously designed
& is having many eco-friendly features, aesthetically design
green land scape area & the best of infrastructure & utilities.
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED n 47
At the beginning of the year total 63,868 sq.ft saleable area
was available for sale at the said premise. During the year
under review the company sold 12610 sq ft saleable area at
an aggregate consideration of R 24.28 Crs. New construction in
commercial space is minimal. In view of limited availability of
good office premises and improved sentiments in Commercial
space market, Company is hopeful to monetize remaining
premises of about 51,258 sq. ft. saleable area during current
year.
4.6 New Initiatives
4.6.1 Composite LPG Cylinder
Through the year gone by has not been to the expectation
but all the same now appears to be promising for the current
financial year.
There were some minor technical issues on the cylinders
supplied by the Company to Korea and Bangladesh. All those
issues have been resolved and clients have started discussions
for repeat orders.
It is encouraging to note that Bangladesh has been using
cylinders for last one year and the Company is negotiating to
supply larger quantities in the current year.
Market demands 15.6 and 20 kg. cylinders. Company
developed the cylinders and got approval from TUV, PESO
and KGS. In this, a trial lot has been shipped to Korea in 20
kg. cylinder and the Company expects to have a good volume
in these sizes since the country being a coastal region faces a
problem of rusting of steel cylinders.
The much awaited BIS Standards is complete and BIS 16646
has been published for Type IV composite cylinders. This was
necessary so that oil market companies can now take effective
steps to introduce composite cylinders in Indian market.
The feedback has been good from Company’s customers for
it’s cylinders on whatever small quantities supplied by the
Company to Private Gas Companies in Goa, Belgaum and
Bengaluru. Company hopes to see better off-take from Indian
Gas Companies in coming year.
Company has acquired 10% business interest in HPC Research
s.r.o. a start up company focusing on R & D in Composite
Cylinders in the Czech Republic which will strengthen its R &
D footprint in the field of Pressure Vessels.
5. FINANCE
A brief on borrowing levels and finance cost is given below -:
Particulars Measure F.Y.
2017-18
F.Y.
2016-17
Net borrowing
level at the end
of the year
R In crores 246.40 228.36
Average Monthly
Borrowings
R in crores 335.95 382.13
Interest &
finance charges
R In crores 21.92 30.24
Average cost of
borrowings at the
end of the year
% p. a 7.12 6.56
Particulars Measure F.Y.
2017-18
F.Y.
2016-17
Financial cost as
a % of Turnover
% 0.44 0.68
Total Debt :
Equity Ratio
0.14 0.15
During the year under review despite RBI keeping the policy
rates under control , there was increase in interest rate scenario
in India and US FED rates continue to increase ( going up from
1% to 1.75%), resulting in higher cost for borrowings under
Buyer’s credit/ Packing credit in foreign currency routes.
Now, with the abrupt discontinuance of Letter of Undertakings
(LOUs) by RBI, availment of low cost working capital credit in
foreign currency may become difficult.
Despite the challenging times, the Company managed to
reduce its overall finance cost during the year under review,
on account of (a) Prudent working capital management (b)
more reliance on low cost commercial papers and low cost
borrowings from banks, and (c) Judicious and consistent
hedging policy to mitigate the risk arising out of foreign
currency fluctuations.
Even though, LOUs are now discontinued, Company is
equipped to adopt alternative routes to continue to avail low
cost foreign currency borrowings to meet its working capital
requirements.
During the year under review, the Company has not availed any
fresh loans and it has repaid Term loan installments of R 47.44
crores. The Company has no plans to increase its borrowings
level and it is committed to become virtually debt free (except
for its working capital requirements) in the next year.
Dealers’ financing & Vendor Management.
The Dealers’ finance facilities extended by Standard Chartered
Bank is becoming popular amongst the channel partners of
the Company. More and more channel partners are trying to
get enrolled under the scheme so as to meet their working
capital requirements at competitive rates offered by the bank.
The Company is also availing extended maturity payables to
its creditors thus effectively managing its vendors.
CRISIL Rating
During the year, the Rating for Company’s Short term bank
facilities was reaffirmed at “CRISIL A1+ (re-affirmed)” by
CRISIL (which is highest rating for the Short term instruments).
The Long Term Banking Facilities was re-affirmed at “CRISIL
AA/Stable (re-affirmed)“.
According to CRISIL, the re-affirmation of the rating continues
to reflect Company’s diversified revenue profile, with multiple
end-user industries mitigating impact of slowdown in any
industry, Healthy market position across business segments,
supported by strong product development capabilities and
extensive distribution network, Robust financial risk profile,
backed by comfortable networth, low gearing and strong debt
protection metrics.
Capital Expenditure
Considering the better business growth potential going forward
the Company has increased investment plan to around R 450
48 n THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
crores in this year as compared to R 350 crores as planned in
the beginning of the year. Out of the above investment plan
of R 450 crores, the Company incurred Capital Expenditure
(Capex) of R 260 crores. The balance committed investment
will go in production in the year 2018-19.
During the current year i.e. 2018-19, the Company envisages
Capex in the range of about R 300 to 350 crores, mainly on
the following:
a) Taking effective steps to put up a new Unit at Assam.
b) Start a Greenfield Plastics Product Complex in Andhra
Pradesh by acquiring land and initiating preliminary
action.
c) Put up a plant to make Protective Packaging Product at
Jadcharla in Telangana.
d) Put up plastic pipe manufacturing at Jadcharla.
e) Increase HDPE plant capacity at Kharagpur.
f) Put additional Roto Machines and moulds at different
locations.
g) Add molulds and mouilding machines in Pipe, Furniture
and material handling division.
h) To increase capacity of Industrial components business.
i) To increase capacity of Protective Packaging Products.
j) To invest in automation.
The Company shall continue to finance its Capex programme
through internal accruals and Supplier’s Credit.
6. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The Company has adequate internal audit and control
systems. Internal auditors comprising of professional firms of
Chartered Accountants have been entrusted the job to conduct
regular internal audits at all units/ locations and report to the
management the lapses, if any. Both internal auditors and
statutory auditors independently evaluate the adequacy of
internal control system. Based on the audit observations and
suggestions, follow up, remedial measures are being taken
including review and increase in the scope of coverage, if
necessary. The Audit Committee of Directors, in its periodical
meetings, review the adequacy of internal control systems and
procedures and suggest areas of improvements.
The Company has undertaken a detailed exercise to revisit
its control systems in technical and other non-financial
areas to align them properly with Management Information
Systems (MIS) to make MIS more efficient and result oriented.
Information technology base created by the Company over
the period is providing a very useful helping hand in the
process. Needless to mention, that ensuring maintenance of
proper accounting records, safeguarding assets against loss and
misappropriation, compliance of applicable laws, rules and
regulations and providing reasonable assurance against fraud
and errors will continue to remain central point of the entire
control systems.
7. H UMAN RESOURCES
Human resource is considered as key to the future growth
strategy of the Company and looks upon to focus its efforts
to further align human resource policies, processes and
initiatives to meet its business needs. In order to focus on
keeping employees abreast of technological and technical
developments, the Company provides opportunity for training
and learning within the country and abroad. Industrial relations
at all the units and locations are cordial.
Cautionary Statement
Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis describing
the Company’s objectives, expectations or predictions may be
forward looking within the meaning of applicable securities, laws
and regulations. Actual results may differ materially from those
expressed in the statement. Important factors that would influence
the Company’s operations include cost of raw materials, tax laws,
interest and power cost and economic developments and such
other factors within the country and the international economic
and financial developments.

Management Discussion and Analysis
1. OVERVIEW
 The various initiatives taken by the Central and State 
Governments have started showing fruitful outcome in the 
year. The focus on construction of affordable houses, effective 
implementation of RERA, Swachha Bharat Mission, Amrut 
Yojana and other infrastructure building activities are enabling 
the Company to grow it’s Plastics Piping System Business.
 The Government announcement to build 100 smart cities is 
also taking shape. It has started in certain cities. It is expected 
that the whole scheme will have bigger role to play to boost 
business in the years to come.
 The initiatives taken up-to-date by the Government are 
gathering momentum. With an expected growth in the 
businesses of several verticals, the Company took steps to put 
new production units and also expand capacity in several of 
it’s existing units. All the investment plans have fructified or 
are fructifying by June 2019 within the planned investment 
and time frame.
 The Company had plans to put new units at Andhra Pradesh 
(AP) and Assam in the beginning of the year 2019. As the 
land negotiation dragged for a long period, the company has 
prioritised to put a Greenfield plant at Orissa. The effective 
actions will be taken in this year on this initiative. The plans 
to put up units at A.P and Assam will follow thereafter.
 The raw material availability was adequate and affordable. 
The PVC prices in the first ten months maintained upward 
bias. Suddenly the prices dropped in March by 12.5% in five 
week times. This resulted in steep inventory loss in the working 
of the Company for the year eroding it’s operating margin to 
some extent.
 The Company is a large convertor of PVC resin. Company 
currently expects that this lower price regime of PVC may 
continue for some time. It will broaden the Company’s 
business volume and also reduce working capital requirements.
 The prices of other Polymers have improved to some extent 
from their lowest level. The Company converts mostly 
commodity plastics where prices have tendency to remain 
volatile. However, for the current year, the Company expects 
Polymer prices to remain affordable. Availability of raw material 
is also going to remain adequate.
 The Government has committed to revisit the GST rates. It’s 
pronounced aim to reduce the number of GST rate slabs 
triggers hope that Company’s product which mostly fall in 
18% slab of GST may go down to a lower level whenever the 
slabs of GST rates are compressed.
 When the GST was introduced it was expected that informal 
sector may graduate faster to move to formal sector. However, 
pace of moving to formal sector by informal players is quite 
slow.
 The Company remains committed to boost it’s value added 
business and to increase it’s export turnover. To boost export 
business , Company participates last year in 20 international 
Exhibitions for it’s various products. This has boosted it’s export 
turnover from $ 16.93 million to $ 23.05 million. Company 
continues to work aggressively to boost it’s export business by 
intensive marketing and making investments in products which 
can generate larger growth in export business.
 In absolute quantum, the value added product turnover has 
also shown quantum jump. The turnover of such products have 
grown to R 1944 crores compared to the turnover of R 1734 
Crores in the year 2017-18.
 In most of its divisions the focus remains to grow the value 
added businesses. Several investments were made and also 
planned in the current year in this target to go on growing 
value added business turnover.
2. PRODUCT GROUPS:
 The product groups of the Company have been recast as 
follows:
Group Products
Plastics 
Piping 
System
uPVC Pipes, Injection Moulded PVC fittings and 
handmade fittings, Polypropylene Random Copolymer pipe system, HDPE Pipe Systems, CPVC Pipes 
Systems, Inspection Chambers, manholes, Toilets Bath 
fittings, Roto moulded Tanks and Fittings and Solvents, 
Industrial Piping System, DWC Pe Pipe System and 
Fire Sprinkler System
Consumer 
products
Furniture
Industrial 
Products
Industrial Components, Material handling System and 
Pallets - Roto moulded crates, pallets and garbage bins 
and Composite LPG Cylinders.
Packaging 
Products
Flexible packaging film products, Protective Packaging 
Products, Cross Laminated Film products.
PRODUCT GROUP WISE SHARE IN TURNOVER FOR 
THE LAST TWO YEARS (% OF VALUE)
Plastics 
Piping 
System 
58%
Packaging 
Products 19%
Industrial 
Products 16% 
Consumer 
Products 7%
2018-19
Industrial Products 
16.32% 
Packaging 
Products 
20.81%
Consumer 
Products 
Plastics Piping 7.18%
System 55.66%
2017-18
 The net turnover (including other income) of the Company 
for the year under review was R 5632.47 Crores (including 
R 46.36 Crores by way of trading in other related products 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED Page 37
ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19
and R 80.85 crores from sale of Premises) as against R 4986.31 
crores (including R 65.77 Crores by way of trading in other 
related products and R 24.28 crores from sale of premises ) 
during the previous year.
 The Company has sold 3,97,983 tons of Plastic products as 
against 3,71,176 tons of Plastic products in the corresponding 
period of previous year, reflecting a growth of 7% in product 
turnover by volume.
 Profit before interest, depreciation and exceptional items and 
taxes during the period under review have been at R 804.57 
crores as against R 803.04 crores during the previous year.
3. COMPANY’S STRENGTH AND GROWTH DRIVERS
3.1 Manufacturing Sites
 The Company is operating from 25 manufacturing sites 
operating across 12 States and Union Territories. During the 
year under review, Company has put up two new facilities 
at Giloth (Rajasthan) and Jadcherla (Telangana). Company 
has divested Khushkhera Unit to a newly formed Joint 
Venture Company namely Kumi Supreme India Private 
Limited. Company also shifted its existing property, plant and 
equipment of Hosur Unit I to newly expanded Hosur Unit II in 
order to achieve better synergies and cost optimization. Land 
& Building of Hosur Unit I has been divested resulting into 
gain of R 11.31crores. The Company intends to start working 
on further new sites to put up new plants and considering 
Orissa, Assam & A.P. as probable destinations to expand its 
geographical spread.
3.2 Distribution network
 Your Company is committed to increase its reach throughout 
the country. Company is continuously working on strengthening 
its distribution network. The distributors strength has gone up 
to 3778 Nos. by the end of March 2019 compared to 3303 
Nos. by March 2018.
 Company has also started selling products directly to big 
retailers in selected areas. Selectively, the Company has 
strengthened it’s supply system to service those retailers in a 
cost efficient manner. Company is also expanding its reach 
through opening more Depot wherever it is unable to rope 
in strong and resourceful channel partner.
3.3 Growth Drivers
 Your Company is strengthening its brand in multiple ways. 
Company is increasing its spend on Advertisement through 
Electronic & Print media and participating in several Exhibitions 
in India and abroad along with large meets of plumbers, 
Dealers, Retailers and Architects. Company is also taking 
legal recourse to contain counterfeit products in Plastics pipe 
System, XF Products and Furniture. Company assiduously 
works to address this menace. Further Company is opening 
more knowledge centers in various parts of the country to 
showcase its product range, guide on correct installation 
techniques and continuously upgrade the knowledge of 
architects, contractors, farmers and other fraternities of the 
society related to Company’s products.
4. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
4.1 Plastics Piping Systems
 The Company continues its objective to grow Plastic Pipe 
System business. The Company is leader in this segment 
as it has the largest portfolio of products, which is being 
continuously increased, to offer more systems as required in 
the economy.
 The Company during the year under review registered an over 
all revenue growth of 16% in Plastic Piping System made from 
different plastic materials. Overall the Company sold 2,79,748 
Tons of Pipe System compared to 2,56,330 Tons in the same 
period of last year.
 The Government at the Centre and States has put the priority 
focus on Swatch Bharat Abhiyan, Sanitation and affordable 
houses to all and development of 100 smart cities on all India 
basis. Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA) has created a major 
transformation the way housing construction for sale was in 
vogue in the Country. Many prominent Business Houses have 
made ambitious plans in this sector to grow geometrically with 
launch of their projects at multiple locations. The growth tempo 
has now started and the Company expects good demand 
coming from the segment this year onwards.
 The Company incurred Capex of R 127 crore in this year in 
it’s various plants to build more capacities and increase range. 
Majority of them has been put to use .
 The Company with objective of making its footprint for 
manufacturing at South Zone, for Plastic Piping Division, has got 
50 acres of land allotted at Jadcherla-District Mahaboobnagar 
at Telangana. The production of Water & Septic Tanks at that 
location has started. The Company will launch other Piping 
System products at this location in this year. The Company 
also intends to launch new specialty systems from Jadcherla 
plant for Piping System to cater to high end applications.
 The plant at Kharagpur is fully operational. The capacity 
increase for PVC, HDPE & CPVC Pipes is now in place and 
operational. The Company is also exploring further increasing 
the capacity of HDPE Pipe at Kharagpur plant to cater to 
increased demand. The Company has also decided to start 
manufacturing of Moulded Fittings at Kharagpur to service 
Eastern market effectively which should go in production 
during 2019-20.
 To meet the increasing demand of HDPE Pipes in North India, 
the Company has put up the capacity in Malanpur Unit No.3. 
The commercial production of it has started.
 The enhanced capacity for Roto Moulded Products is made 
operational at Kanpur & Malanpur plants. The Company 
launched Roto Moulded temporary Toilet and multi-station 
Urinal basically for construction sites, Melas and exhibitions 
during the year. Both these products are well accepted by 
the market supporting cleanliness and environment. The 
Company plans to substantially increase the business of Water 
Tanks through different market strategy of servicing directly to 
retailers from the respective factories. The actions for same 
are being initiated on all India basis for retailers appointment. 
The Company also intends to launch Premium range of Water 
Tanks with added features.
 The production of Double Wall Corrugated HDPE Pipes 
has started from Gadegaon and Kharagpur plants with BIS 
Certification. The Company is in process to educate various 
departments the benefits of putting in place a good quality 
DWC Pipes with latest technology and using virgin certified 
raw materials in terms of performance and longer life.
 The Company introduced 63 nos. of variety of Injection 
Moulded Pipe fittings during 2018-19. They all have been well 
received in the market. The sale of moulded fittings increased 
Page 38 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
by 15% in volume terms during the year under review. The 
Company has plan of introducing further new items during the 
year as per system requirement. The total product portfolio 
in Plastic Pipe System has reached 8085 nos., thus adding 
355 products to the range of various Plastic Piping System 
compared to previous year.
 The Company manufactures the cPVC Pipes at three of 
its manufacturing location and cPVC Fittings at two of its 
manufacturing locations. The Company has planned further 
expansion of cPVC Pipe manufacturing at it’s Malanpur Plant 
and plans to set up facility to make these pipes at Jadcherla 
plant. The cPVC system sales during last year grew by 28% in 
value over previous year.
 The AQUAKRAFT Bath Fittings introduced by the Company 
is well established now including newly launched Chrome 
Plated range. There were 13 new items introduced during 
the year. The portfolio in Bath Fittings has reached to 108 
items. Company continues to import some variety of Bath 
Fittings to service local market. The Company plans to further 
complement the range during 2019-20 by introducing large 
varieties of products in Bath fittings. The Company also plans 
to enhance its manufacturing facility at Pondicherry at adjacent 
plot. The Bath Fittings sales during last year grew by 42% over 
previous year.
 The Company’s business to Export market during the year saw 
a growth of 47.8% in US $ terms. The Company is continuously 
trying to boost its export business of Piping Systems.
 The Division’s Value Added Products sale was 39% compared 
to 38% in the previous year. The Company has also added 
further 87 direct business Channel partners during the year 
taking the total to 1071 Nos. The Company continues to 
expand its reach by appointing Distributors in areas where 
there is a gap. The Company has also started directly servicing 
retailers in selected markets for certain specific products of this 
division.
 The Company has multiple Knowledge Centres across 
the country to train Plumbers and intereact with Farmers, 
Architects and Plumbing consultants in respective zones. 
Currently, they are functioning at Gadegaon, Kochi, Malanpur 
and Kharagpur. Company expects to start such centres at more 
locations in near future.
 With the help of specialists the Company has embarked upon 
a new activity with nomenclature as “Plumbing Workshop” 
which is a full day session to educate Plumbers and Plumbing 
Contractors. Here the sharing is of latest Plumbing techniques 
along with applications of new products introduced by 
Company in the recent past in the range. The markets have 
very well appreciated it and there is pressure on Company to 
increase the Plumbing Workshop number substantially. The 
Company organized 276 Plumbing workshops in the year 
2018-19 throughout the year. Company plans to organize 
close to 500 Plumbing Workshop during the year 2019-20. 
There are now more than 99,000 Plumbers connected with 
the Company.
 Company has started monitoring data of retailers who buy 
regularly through it’s distribution channels. An action plan to 
increase the number of such retailers on all India basis has 
been worked out and will be tracked.
 Company’s FlameGuard fire sprinkler system is moving slowly 
but steadily in the Indian market. Many leading developers in 
Mumbai accepted the concept and started using the system. 
At present there are 10-12 on-going projects of prestigious 
builders in Mumbai. Apart from Mumbai, the system is 
supplied to projects in Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat and 
Telangana. Apart from residential projects, Company expects 
good business from the Hotel Industry all over India. In last 
financial year, Company exported the system to Srilanka and 
Philippines and export base will be further broadened in 
current financial year.
 Company achieved license from Bureau of Indian Standards( 
BIS) to manufacture such pipes. Apart from BIS, FlameGuard 
pipes are also UL listed. The BIS standard for FlameGuard 
fittings has been published and the Company is doing the 
needful for approval. Company has also sent the samples of 
fittings for UL listing at USA and expect UL listing within 2-3 
months. To reduce the dependency on imports some more 
fittings are being developed indigenously. Thereafter Company 
will be in position to supply majorly indigenously manufactured 
products and will become more competitive in business.
 BIS Standard for the installation of the sprinkler system is not 
yet revised. However, the CPVC as an alternate material is in 
consideration in the draft. After the standard gets published, 
the business will be boosted.
 As far as the approval part is considered, the system being new 
to the Indian Market, multiple approvals are required. There 
is no fixed format and it changes from state to state and even 
city to city. At present Company has approvals from Chief Fire 
Officer (CFO) Mumbai, Director Fire Services Maharashtra, 
Gujarat, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. Recently the system 
was also approved by Dy. Director Uttar Pradesh which will 
facilitate business in NCR market.
 To support environment concern the Company is gearing up 
to meet with National Green Tribunal and court directive of 
phasing out Lead stabilizers from manufacturing of different 
types of uPVC Pipes. The Company is planning a phased 
out schedule for different variety of PVC Pipes having Lead 
stabilizers to produce with Lead free stabilizers.
4.2 Consumer Products
4.2.1 Furniture
 The Company’s furniture business during the year grew by 
14 % in value terms and 5% in volume terms reaching R 400 
Crore mark during the year. The growth of the Company has 
been higher than other leading brands of Plastic Furniture 
among plastic furniture segment. However, the sales of 
unorganized players continued to gather momentum due to 
high acceptance of brown colour and matt finish products 
where the use of reprocessed polymers makes little difference 
in the overall appeal of the product.
 The Company successfully completed the process of 
setting up a Green Field project for manufacture of Injection 
Moulded Furniture at Jadcherla near Hyderabad in Telangana. 
The plant has gone into operation from first week of April 
2019 and will help the Company in improving its market 
share in Southern States. In fact, the new plant will serve as 
a feeder unit for all other zones also due to its location & 
connectivity. The additional capacity of this green field project 
will enable the Company to grow rapidly during the year. Apart 
from Jadcherla plant, the Company currently manufactures 
Injection Moulded Furniture at Puducherry (UT), Durgapur 
(West Bengal), Derabassi (Punjab), Gadegaon (Maharashtra) 
& Guwahati (Assam) to cater effectively different regions of 
the country.
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED Page 39
ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19
 The Company also manufactures Blow Moulded Tables at its 
Kharagpur (West Bengal) plant which has now stabilized and 
showing good growth over last year. However, the plant is still 
operating at less than 50 % of its capacity. Looking at wide 
acceptance of Blow Moulded Tables and increase in range, 
the Company expects to utilize 70-75 % capacity utilization 
by end of this year. The Company currently manufactures 11 
products made with Blow Moulded technology which have 
been well appreciated by the market. The Company will 
commercially launch six new products in the first quarter to 
cater different market segments and increase acceptance of 
Blow Moulded products. The Company is optimistic about 
future growth from this segment and would look forward to 
expand its capacity for achieving economies of scale. The 
export potential of this segment is yet to be realized due to 
high cost of metal fabrication.
 The Company has already committed investment on various 
new furniture models which will go into production by 2nd & 
3rd Quarter of the year and help in growth of business during 
the year. The Company introduced twelve new furniture 
models during the year. The Company’s two seater rattan 
finish Love Seat Sofa which made an ideal combination with 
its fast selling model Cambridge Chair and Vegas Center Table 
was well appreciated during the year in domestic as well as 
International Market. All the new models introduced during 
the year were well appreciated and the Company hopes to 
get good growth from its new introductions.
 The Company plans to start manufacture of Roto Moulded 
Furniture and expect to launch Four models of Roto Moulded 
Furniture in 1st Quarter of this year.
 The Company’s furniture is currently available to its customers 
through nationwide network of 12,000 retailers. The Company 
plans to add another 1400 retailers during the year. The 
Company increased its strength of channel partners from 
900 to 1045 Nos and continues to increase its presence in 
unrepresented areas. The Company has established itself as a 
premium brand amongst its trade channel and customers due 
to its continuous focus on Quality, innovation and wide range 
of products. It is perceived as Premium Furniture Manufacturer 
by trade partners and consumers.
 The Company continues to focus on developing its export 
market and has received good acceptance by various 
customers. The Company participated in Three International 
Furniture Exhibition in the year. This initiative enabled it to 
show case it’s wide range of Furniture in various International 
markets.
 The Company achieved breakthrough with some of the leading 
retailers in international market. This has resulted in value 
growth to R 5.50 crores in the year under review compared to 
an export of R 1.90 crores inn the 2017-18 year. This augurs 
well for future high growth in Furniture export business.
 The Company has now been awarded SA 8000 certification for 
its Lalru plant reinforcing the practices adopted of international 
standards for social accountability which would help in adding 
more large retailers as it’s customers in future.
4.3 Industrial Products
4.3.1 Industrial Components
 The year started against the backdrop of improved business 
sentiments resulting from gradual economic recovery and 
various steady reforms initiated by the government. Demand 
revival took momentum both in Automotive and Consumer 
Durable sector being catered by the Division. At the beginning 
of the year, the Division had projected growth of 16% and 18% 
in Value and Volume terms in both the sectors put together. 
The trend was quite encouraging until November’18 but took 
severe beating thereafter. This was because market didn’t pick 
up as expected during festive season resulting in inventory pile 
up with most of Automobile and Appliances manufacturers 
followed by sluggish demand thereafter. However, Company 
acquired sizable order for supply of sub-assemblies for EVMs 
and VVPATs which helped to cover deficit in sales occurred 
during last 4 months of the year. Division grew by 20% and 
12% respectively in Value and Volume terms over previous 
year.
 As informed earlier, Khushkhera Unit of the division was 
transferred to newly formed joint venture company namely 
Kumi Supreme India Pvt Limited promoted jointly with Kumi 
Kasai Co of Japan on 30th June,2018 as a going concern. This 
JV Company grew 14% and 6% in value and volume terms 
over previous year when this plant was part of Supreme Entity. 
This JV has been continuously acquiring good business from 
Maruti Suzuki, Honda Motors and other tier 1 customers in 
many of its new models. Company expects good long-term 
prospects of that JV Company with these customers.
 In order to meet improved demand of one of the Company’s 
major AC customer the Company had decided to put up a 
new plant at Ghiloth near Nimarana, Rajasthan and is operative 
since September’18. This plant is equipped with the most 
modern manufacturing facilities. Scope is kept for future 
expansion as company expects good growth from this facility 
during years to come. Noida Plant revenue together with 
Ghiloth Plant grew by over 9%. Demand for AC and Coolers 
is steadily improving indicating healthy growth in future. Noida 
and Ghiloth plant together are poised to be focused entities 
for White Goods Business. Both the plants together embarked 
on Operational Excellence Program to become Future Ready.
 Auto Business in the western India improved further during 
FY18-19 first half revenue steadily improving from our major 
customer Tata Motors being mainly serviced from Talegaon 
Plant. Company acquired a major non-recurring order of EVM 
and VVPATs sub assemblies, which kept the plant busy for 
more than 2 quarters improving the plant capacity utilization. 
Company is aggressively focusing to improve ROI by various 
BPR measures.
Chennai Plant registered Revenue growth of over 27% buoyed 
by good demand from Appliances Sector Customers. Company 
has embarked on expanding this plant to exploit future 
Business opportunities here. The facility will be operational 
by second quarter of the current year. This expansion should 
help company to improve plant revenue significantly during 
next couple of years. Pondy Plant achieved a good Revenue 
growth of 16% driven by good demand for Washing Machines. 
The drive was taken to improve the operations further to 
enhance productivity, Quality, Cost Optimization, and Skills 
Up-gradation to meet increased expectations from customers 
and stay competitive. Both Chennai and Pondy plant would 
work to establish high level of synergy to become major 
Industrial Plastic Parts and Assembly Source of South.
Durgapur Plant also achieved healthy value and volume 
growth of 28% and 25% respectively due to maturation of the 
new businesses acquired during previous years. Company has 
planned Operational Excellence initiatives and major re-layout 
of the plant to improve Overall Operations.
Page 40 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
 Company has taken drive to rationalize and reorient the 
machine capacities at its various locations to align it with the 
changed Product- Mix. While doing so, the new machines 
and equipment being added are equipped with the latest 
Technology, Energy efficient, designed for Good repeatability 
for better quality and improved productivity. Wherever 
feasible and cost-effective, Automation is being considered 
to for better productivity and quality. All these initiatives 
will ensure enhanced Quality, Productivity, Safety, Energy 
conservation and Cost Optimization. It is helping us to negate 
the impact of inflation due to various manufacturing cost 
increases. The various such initiatives of the Company would 
support Environment and help Go Green. Continuous focus 
on employee engagement initiatives is helping company to 
enhance its Human Capital.
 Overall rating of the company by its customers meets or 
exceeds their expectations. Company is considered a highly 
dependable and valuable supplier. The Journey towards 
excellence is being cultivated as a culture and will be 
continuous.
4.3.2 Material Handling Products
 The Material Handling Products Division (MHD) has performed 
with good results in few sectors and below expectations in few 
sectors. Overall the Division has performed reasonably well 
during the year under review.
 The Division caters diverse Industry needs with following 
products lines
1) Crates:- for Industrial, Engineering, Automobiles, Retail
2) Fisheries, Fruit & Vegetable and Dairy.
3) Pallet for Warehousing, storage and Transit of material.
4) Bottle crates- For soft drink and beverages industries
5) Roto moulded crates, Pallet, Dustbins and customized 
products
 The Industrial crates which services to Sector like, Automobile, 
Engineering, Appliances , FMCG and Retails has grown over by 
9%, Considering the flat results of Automobile and Engineering, 
Appliances sectors which are the main customers for industrial 
crates the growth is good .New crates models introduced 
during the year have been well accepted by the customers 
and are expected to give good growth next year as well.
 Your Company continues to provide customized fabricated 
crates solution for the major Automobile and Appliances 
customers even when these industries had very sluggish year, 
our business has shown steady growth and retention of major 
customers.
 In Dairy business your Company has developed a patented 
design model with good initial successes, The Company is 
confident that during the current year the model will be a 
game changer in Dairy Industry.
 In Pallet the Division has posted excellent result with growth 
of over 34%, both injection and roto pallets have shown good 
results achieved through Industrial customers only. None of 
the Govt. Agencies have purchased any significant quantities 
during the year under review. Company will soon introduce 
few more models to serve more numbers of customers which 
are not served presently. Your company has also planned to 
enhance the capacity for Pallet production during the current 
year considering the momentum of sales and is hopeful of 
even better results with its pallet range.
 The division has introduced a new product line “PP Corrugated 
Sheet” manufacturing at Lalru, Punjab unit. This product line 
is aimed to provide high quality customized, value added 
products to its customers. After initial teething troubles 
during first few months, this product line has started showing 
progressive results. Division is hopeful of running full capacity 
during the current year and fulfill its’ customer aspirations of 
consistent top quality product which is presently not available 
to them with smaller & unorganised players
 Roto products of Division have shown positive trends with 
over 13% growth. With locational advantage of geographically 
manufacturing spread, Division shall be introducing many 
customized solutions in this category also during the year for 
even better growth.
 The Company has introduced one model in Injection moulded 
dustbin with high acceptance. Looking at the success of this 
model, other models are in pipeline for the current year to 
ensure the market participation and be a part of Swachha 
Bharat Mission.
 The Bottle Crates business of the Division languished due to 
poor demand from major soft drink players.
 Your Company follows strict quality norms and refrains from 
using recycled plastic particularly demanded in Fruit and 
Vegetable crates category. Fruits and vegetable crates are sold 
only to selected quality conscious customers.
 Division is continuously growing its distribution network with 
over 210 channel partner all over India. Division still need 
to strengthen its network and increase its distribution spread 
specially in eastern and southern India.
4.3.3 Composite LPG Cylinder
 The Company received order for 80,000 cylinders for 
supplies to Bangladesh in the beginning of this financial year. 
Company started executing the order in time bound manner. 
The Company received some complaints which had arisen 
due to non-conformity of some bought out components. The 
Company stopped supplies beyond 63,000 cylinders after 
knowing quality problem on these components.
 The Company’s technical team in consultation with it’s 
associate in The Czech Republic has found a workable solution 
to address the issue at Bangladesh. It will take few months to 
resolve the issue. Based on that, the Company is addressing 
the quality issues in certain quantities among the cylinders 
supplied.
 The Company has made necessary provision of cost involved 
in addressing this issue, in the working of the year 2018-19.
 Supplies of 20 kg. cylinders to Korea is being used successfully. 
The Company hopes to get good orders from it’s customers in 
Korea.
 The Company has also supplied initial quantities in the African 
Continent. Company expects to supply further quantities in 
this financial year.
 The Company has received indications from Oil Marketing 
Companies to get more orders from Government Oil 
Companies in this year.
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED Page 41
ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19
 The Company was hopeful of turnaround of this Division in the 
financial year 2018-19 but due to quality issue of Bought out 
component, it turned out to be a tough year. The Company 
expects improved performance from 3rd quarter onwards in 
the current financial year in this division.
4.4 Packaging Products
4.4.1 Packaging Films
 Performance Films Division (PFD)
 The Performance Films Division has achieved expansion in 
capacity at the Company’s existing location in Khopoli. The 
division has acquired a new 7 layer film extrusion unit as well 
as an 8 colour CI Flexographic Printing press. Both of the new 
equipments will help the Company to deliver better quality of 
product and will improve our lead times due to the increase 
in flexibility of production capabilities.
 The Company has also added one lamination unit to cater 
to demand from its existing customers. This will also help the 
Company in creating value added products to its portfolio.
 The division has a slow-down in business owing to competitive 
pressure and increase in manufacturing capacity in the industry 
in the year under review.
 Overall sale was 6703 tons as against 7454 tons in the previous 
year due to intense competition. Consequently the sales value 
was also lower from R 125.31 crores to R 109.63 crores. 
Exports were also lower at 1316 tons as against 1659 tons in 
the previous year. Here also the prices were under pressure 
due to stiff competition from Indian manufacturers.
 The Company remains optimistic in the current year. Even 
though the prices are under pressure, the customers base is 
sustained due to the Company’s quality commitment and 
service.
 The Company expects to achieve substantial volume and value 
growth in this business in the current year due to increase 
in customer base in India and Abroad. This has been made 
possible due to increase in the production capacity with 
improved product mix.
4.4.2 Protective packaging division (PPD)
 PPD has recorded 10.18 % growth in value and 11.50 % in 
volume during the year under review. The total sale achieved 
is 26018 MT as against 23335 MT of last year.
 EPE requirement has been growing in mattress application.
 The division has installed additional foam production capacity 
of 4000 MTPA at Hosur to meet the increasing demand for 
south market. The division is also working to enhance the 
productivity of existing extruders at all places to cater to the 
increasing demand.
 The division is also starting a new facility at the Jadcherla 
complex with an EPE capacity of 3200 tons of epe alongwith 
1440 tons of ABF, to cater to the increasing demand in 
Telangana & Andhra Pradesh alongwith some neighboring 
states which are logistically cost effective. Due to civil delays 
the plant is expected to go on stream by 2nd quarter of this 
financial year.
 The division is also now on the verge of offering a premium 
range of foam variants to all institutional mattress customers.
 New NBR sheet plant at Malanpur has started commercial 
production during the month of September 2018. The 
Company’s products have been appreciated in the market. 
Within two months of operation the new plant has been 
stabilized with the targeted density of 45 kg/m3. Also many 
of the imported ingredients have been replaced by local 
ingredients. By adding an adhesive lamination line, a large 
numbers of variants have now been added. A few more new 
variants will be added in the coming year. The division will be 
offering a comprehensive list of thermal insulating products.
 The Two units at Hosur were merged into a single unit. This 
unit now has a total built up area of over 350000 sq ft. The 
modern layout ensures a smooth flow of material ensuring 
movement efficiencies. The vacated premise of Unit 1 has 
been sold. The overall production capacity stands at 15000 
tons against 10000 tons in the previous year. The division 
expects significant growth of business in South zone
 Kharagpur capacity of EPE foam was also increased by 2600 
tons in the year under review. Production of single stage, 
crosslinked block foam has also commenced in the month of 
March 2019 to better service the East Zone customers
 Due to introduction of new pollution control norms in 
Maharashtra, production of Air bubble film line and lower 
thickness foam was stopped at Urse for two months which 
has affected the business of west zone to some extent.
 Packaging
 Packaging vertical has grown by 5.91 % in value and 8.66 % 
in volume as against last year. Major growth has come from 
polyethylene foam business due to superior quality of low 
density against other local competitors. The Tandem Foam 
Extruder which had been developed by the Engineering team 
is one of the key factors for growth of this business.
 The division has successfully developed many items for 
Decathlon which were earlier imported by them. The division 
expects few more products to be introduced this year. Talks 
are on to enroll Supreme as a global supplier by Decathlon.
 Several new products have been added to our range of single 
stage block Cross linked foam products for the footwear and 
packaging industries. The overall installed production capacity 
has also increased from 5000 MTPA to 6300 MTPA at Hosur 
and Malanpur.
 The business of Two stage block foam which was sluggish for 
the past few years has now picked up. Production capacity 
has been doubled from 203 MTPA to around 324 MTPA with 
marginal investment during the year to cater to the increased 
demand.
 Civil
 Civil business has grown by 14.16% in value and 13.95 
% in volume in the current year. Increased infrastructure 
development in the country has increased business opportunity 
in Government projects. DURA floor protector – XF which 
is a composite product of Silpaulin and EPE foam used as a 
re-usable floor protection for interior works is now gaining 
popularity in the market and is expected to grow further in 
the current year.
 Insulation
 The growth of Insulation vertical has shown significant growth 
of 49.46% in value and 68.27% in volume against the previous 
year. This is on account of introduction of NBR sheets & 
large diameter tubes in the year under review. Business of 
PE crosslink foam had taken a beating in the previous years 
Page 42 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
on account of multiple manufacturers entering the field, 
& continued offering inferior products at low prices. To 
counter the same, the Company has developed several low 
cost products,with better properties, duly certified. Business 
is improving due to wider range of product portfolio & the 
Company expects further improvement in the coming year.
 This vertical has initiated several steps to reduce cost of 
products without compromising quality against declared 
specification duly certified. The R&D team is also working on 
several International certifications for Insu range of products. 
With the introduction of NBR sheets, the division is now 
offering a wide range of Insulation products which are generally 
specified by HVAC consultants. The vertical is expecting good 
business growth in the current year.
 The division is working on developing several acoustic 
insulation products. What started as a Two product offering 
a couple of years ago is now a multi product offering. As the 
Company learns the business of acoustics better, it hopes to 
grow this into a full fledged vertical.
 Exports
 The division has participated for the first time in two 
International Foam Exhibitions. New markets need different 
certifications. The process is on and the division expects 
positive results. Exports during the year were R 770 lacs against 
R 218 lacs in the previous year.
 Technology
 In last two years, the division had developed 2 nos. of 400 
kg/hr capacity Tandem Extruder through a Korean vendor. 
Now the division has developed 500 kg / hr Tandem Extruder 
which is running successfully at Hosur unit. These extruders 
are generally used for making low density foam, which creates 
an advantage against competitors.
 Product - Recognition
 The Company’s INSU ranges of products are certified as 
GREEN by CII – Sohrabji Godrej Green Business Centre on 
behalf of IGBC. The INSU range of products are also certified 
with International standards UL VO (Taiwan), NZ 1530 (New 
Zealand). NBR sheets and tubes have also been certified by FM 
USA for its superior fire resistance. The division is working on 
getting few more International certifications which will create 
further export opportunities in the forthcoming period.
4.4.3 Cross Laminated Film
 The Business of Cross Laminated Film & Products had a positive 
growth in volume during the year despite stiff competition 
from several players who have entered this business in last 
two years.
 The Company’s main products are Tarpaulins, bags, fumigation 
covers, vermi bed, rainwater harvesting sheets & pond liners. 
With most parts of India facing water crisis the Government 
is focusing on harvesting water. The Government of India has 
doled out many schemes for conservation of water including 
subsidies to farmers for building water ponds. This has resulted 
in increase in demand for Company’s pond liners which is 
available with warranty.
 The new fabricated products developed by the Company 
have been well accepted by the market. The Company has 
developed many products by laminating the XF film with other 
substrates. The Company expects the sale of these fabricated / 
laminated products to grow manifolds during the coming year.
 The Company was earlier selling Reprocess Granules which 
it was unable to reuse. During the year Company has 
manufactured & sold tarpaulins made from own generated 
Reprocess Granules to target the low cost Tarpaulin Segment. 
This product is well accepted in the Market & will give better 
realization, than selling such granules.
 The quality of the product offered by several new players who 
have entered this business is not comparable. To distinguish 
Company’s products from those of competitors the Company 
is promoting products made from Cross Line Bonded Film. 
This film is now available in all the thicknesses & has patent 
protection. The Company is aiming to substantially increase the 
capacity to manufacture these products. The Company now 
owns the patents worldwide & hence there is lot of savings in 
royalties which would have been payable otherwise.
 In USA the Company has tied up with some local players 
to sell the product online on Amazon & through some store 
chains online and offline. The Company is now receiving 
repeat orders from USA customers. The Company is planning 
to showcase its product in exhibitions to be held in South 
East Asia, Latin America, Africa & USA. This will open up 
new markets besides strengthening the existing markets. The 
Company’s Exports have grown by 14% in volume over the 
previous year.
 The Company’s bags are finding more acceptance from 
industrial product makers. The business of bags has gone up 
by 21% in volume in the year compared to previous year.
 The Company’s technical collaborator has now perfected the 
Cross Plastic Film Technology & is in the process of preparing 
drawings of the equipment’s for manufacturing this film. The 
Company intends to place orders for the equipment’s in the 
coming year. The Company has now acquired worldwide rights 
in the patents of newly developed Cross Plastics Technology 
from it’s Collaborator which will bring in lots of savings in the 
years to come.
4.5 Construction Business
 The company has developed Commercial Premises viz 
“Supreme Chambers” with a view to monetize the land parcel 
it held on shifting of its manufacturing activities out of Mumbai. 
The aesthetically designed green building having many ecofriendly features & infrastructure facilities was completed 
in 2010-2011 with all permissions including Occupation 
Certificate in place.
 At the beginning of the year total 51258 sq ft of saleable area 
was available for Sale at the said premises. During the year 
under review the Company sold 38718 sq ft saleable area at 
an aggregate consideration of R 80.85 crores. Now only 12540 
sq ft remaining area is available for sale.
 The Company is hopeful to monetize the same during the 
current year.
5. FINANCE
1. A brief on borrowing levels and finance cost is given below:-
Particulars Measure F.Y.
2018-19
F.Y.
2017-18
Net borrowing 
level at the end 
of the year
R In crores 160.94 246.40
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED Page 43
ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19
Particulars Measure F.Y.
2018-19
F.Y.
2017-18
Average 
Monthly 
Borrowings
R in crores 265.58 335.95
Interest & 
finance charges
R In crores 26.00 20.64
Average cost of 
borrowings at 
the end of the 
year
% p. a 8.23 7.12
Financial cost as 
a % of Turnover
% 0.46 0.41
Total Debt : 
Equity Ratio
0.08 0.14
 RBI kept the Key policy rates at elevated levels during majority 
period of the year under review. The Repo rate, was at 6.00% at 
the start of the year touched a high of 6.50% in the December, 
2018 Thereafter the RBI has reduced the Repo Rate by 25 
bps each in February 2019 & in April 2019 aggregating to 
the reduction of 50 bps in their respective monetary review 
meetings. Thus the Repo Rate has been gradually brought 
down to 6.00%presently. The higher rates generally resulted 
in relatively higher cost of borrowing for the working capital 
requirements of the Company.
2. Working Capital Borrowing
2.1. Foreign Currency Borrowing
 After the discontinuation of Letter of Undertakings (LOUs) by 
RBI, availability of low cost Working capital Credit in foreign 
currency (Buyer’s credits) became scarce initially. However, 
the Company has managed to restart availing of Buyer’s credit 
funding, directly from overseas lenders at competitive rates.
2.2. Commercial Papers
 During the year under review, the Company continued to 
place cost effective Commercial Papers (CPs) in the market to 
avail low cost INR funding. However, with the latest guidelines 
from RBI, w.e.f. 1st April, 2019, borrowers will have to avail 
40% (60% w.e.f. 1st July, 2019) of Fund based limits by way of 
Working capital demand loans (WCDL) from Banks. As a result 
the Company’s cost of borrowing is expected to go up, as it 
will have to reduce its exposure to CPs and Buyer’s Credits, 
in favour of costlier WCDLs.)
2.3. Dealers’ financing & Vendor Management.
 The Dealers’ finance facilities extended to the selected Channel 
Partners of the Company has progressed well with more & 
more Channel Partners are interested to get enrolled on the 
Channel Finance Scheme. The total sanctioned limit under the 
scheme was around R 87 crores & the utilization was around 
R 61 crores at the end of the year.
 The company continues to negotiate favourable credit terms 
with its suppliers for effectively managing its working capital 
requirements.
3. Term Debt
 During the year under review, the Company has repaid its 
entire term debt component amounting to R 15.38 crores and 
has become debt free Company (except for its Working capital 
facilities).
4. CRISIL Rating
 During the year, the Rating for Company’s Short term bank 
facilities was reaffirmed at “CRISIL A1+” by CRISIL (which is 
highest rating for the Short term instruments).
 CRISIL vide its letter dated 2nd April 2019 has upgraded the 
Rating for Long Term Bank facilities from “CRISIL AA Stable” 
to “CRISIL AA Positive (Outlook Revised from stable and rating 
reaffirmed)”.
 The outlook revision is driven by improvement in the 
company’s business risk profile led by strengthening presence 
in the domestic market backed by wider distribution network 
and expected increase in number of manufacturing facilities. 
The company has a strong market position across multiple 
segments in the plastic products industry, and high-margin, 
value-added products make a healthy contribution of around 
35% to revenue.
5. Capital Expenditure
5.1. Considering optimistic business growth potential, the Company 
has incurred Capital Expenditure (Capex) of R 384 crores, 
during the year under review. The highlights of the Capex 
incurred are as follows.
a) Increase in capacity of Plastics Pipe and Fittings at 
Khargapur, Jalgaon and Malanpur.
b) Increase in capacity of Roto moulded products at 
Malanpur, Kanpur and Jadcherla.
c) Increase in capacity of Protective Packaging Products at 
Malanpur, Kharagpur, Hosur and Jadcherla.
d) Increase in capacity of Plastic moulded furniture/Material 
Handling crates at Jadcherla, Lalru and Durgapur.
e) Increase in capacity of Industrial Components at Ghiloth 
and Talegaon.
f) Increase in capacity of Multilayer performance Packaging 
film at Khopoli.
g) Addition of new moulds to increase product range and 
introduce new products in Plastics pipe and fittings, 
Furniture and Material handling products.
5.2. During the current year i.e. 2019-20, the Company envisages 
Capex in the range of about R 300-350 crores, mainly on the 
following.
a) Putting Moulding shop at Kharagpur complex
b) Establishing capacity to manufacture PVC Pipe System/
HDPE Pipe System/CPVC Pipe System/PEX Piping system 
at Jadcherla
c) Expanding Roto Moulding Capacity at Jadcherla
d) Putting another Unit at Pondy’s new site to increase Bath 
fitting capacity
e) Adding several varieties of Injection Moulding and Blow 
moulded furniture in the Company’s range of furniture
f) Installing additional equipment to increase production of 
XL Bonded XF film at It’s Silvassa and Get Muvala Units.
g) Increasing PVC Pipe manufacturing capacity at Kanpur 
Dehat Unit
Page 44 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
h) To add innovative fabricating machines to produce several 
varieties of new fabricated products from XF film.
i) To add end of the line fabrication machines for 
performance packaging films.
j) To install balancing machines in Protective Packaging 
Division
k) To increase capacity at Gadegaon and replace certain 
old machines at Lalru plant and to invest in moulds for 
increased product range in Material Handling Products
l) To expand capacities in Industrial Product Division at 
Ghiloth and Chennai moulding unit
 During the year under review (1) the company has divested its 
Khushkheda unit to a newly formed joint venture company viz 
Kumi Supreme India Pvt Ltd and realized net gain of R 70.44 
crores from the proceeds thereof (2) Relocated all its Plant & 
Machineries from Hosur unit 1 to Hosur unit 2 & sold land & 
buildings at Hosur unit 1 & realized R 17.41 crores therefrom.
 Moreover the company has also realized R 80.85 crores from 
the Sale of commercial premises at Supreme Chambers.
 In view of the receipt of the above proceeds coupled with 
internal accruals from its operational performance, company’s 
Cash flows average monthly borrowings have been reduced 
by R 70.37 crores inspite of large capital expenditure and 
increased working capital requirement.
 With the steady growth in cash accruals in the medium term 
with moderate Capex of around R 350 to R 400 crores annually 
financial risk profile of the company should remain robust in 
coming years.
6. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
 The Company has adequate internal audit and control 
systems. Internal auditors comprising of professional firms of 
Chartered Accountants have been entrusted the job to conduct 
regular internal audits at all units/ locations and report to the 
management the lapses, if any. Both internal auditors and 
statutory auditors independently evaluate the adequacy of 
internal control system. Based on the audit observations and 
suggestions, follow up, remedial measures are being taken 
including review and increase in the scope of coverage, if 
necessary. The Audit Committee of Directors, in its periodical 
meetings, review the adequacy of internal control systems and 
procedures and suggest areas of improvements.
 The Company has undertaken a detailed exercise to revisit 
its control systems in technical and other non financial 
areas to align them properly with Management Information 
Systems (MIS) to make MIS more efficient and result oriented. 
Information technology base created by the Company over 
the period is providing a very useful helping hand in the 
process. Needless to mention, that ensuring maintenance of 
proper accounting records, safeguarding assets against loss and 
misappropriation, compliance of applicable laws, rules and 
regulations and providing reasonable assurance against fraud 
and errors will continue to remain central point of the entire 
control systems.
7. HUMAN RESOURCES
 Human resource is considered as key to the future growth 
strategy of the Company and looks upon to focus its efforts 
to further align human resource policies, processes and 
initiatives to meet its business needs. In order to focus on 
keeping employees abreast of technological and technical 
developments, the Company provides opportunity for training 
and learning within the country and abroad. Industrial relations 
at all the units and locations are cordial.
 Continuous focus on employee engagement initiatives is 
helping company to enhance its Human Capital. Company is 
envisaging certain fast track initiatives under HR Umbrella to 
enhance skilling of its human resource to improve its capability 
to meet future needs of Digital Manufacturing. Whenever 
required, Company is employing manpower under various 
programs of Skill Development Ministry to support National 
Cause.
Cautionary Statement
Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis describing 
the Company’s objectives, expectations or predictions may be 
forward looking within the meaning of applicable securities, laws 
and regulations. Actual results may differ materially from those 
expressed in the statement. Important factors that would influence 
the Company’s operations include cost of raw materials, tax laws, 
interest and power cost and economic developments and such 
other factors within the country

Management Discussion and Analysis
1. OVERVIEW
Various initiatives taken by the center and state governments 
have given desired boost to the plastic pipe business. There 
is quantum jump in construction of affordable houses. The 
infrastructure activities comprising supplying drinking water 
and to boost the sewage system have gathered momentum.
Naturally all these activities supported by a large range of SKU’s 
in Company’s Plastic Pipe System and launching of additional 
systems have boosted growth in Plastic Pipe Business.
At the end of the year i.e. beginning second half of March 
2020 the business was severely affected due to Covid-19 
Pandemic. The Lockdown is now entering Lockdown 4.0. As 
the time passes, the focus of Government is moving to create a 
balance between Health and Safety of the Countrymen while 
keeping eyes to revive the economy back on growth path.
Government is taking incremental steps every day in different 
parts of the country to give desired boost to the economy. In 
that direction Government has announced r 20 Lakh Crore 
package which is touching several sectors of the economy 
especially to support underprivileged population of the 
country.
With the Country’s preparedness over the last two months 
to prepare to fight against Covid-19 Pandemic which suitably 
supported by this large relief package which is around 10% of 
India’s annual GDP, it is expected that during second quarter 
of the year 2020-21 the economy may start to revive to serve 
the country with a higher growth potential.
Considering the bright future prospects, the Company has not 
slowed down its investment plans. The same was however 
delayed due to cease of activities in different parts of the 
country as a result of Lockdown which remains applicable in 
various parts of the country.
The Company expects that by September this year the business 
should be returning to normalcy and will move to growth path 
by November.
2. PRODUCT GROUPS:
The product groups of the Company have been recast as 
follows:
Group Products
Plastics 
Piping 
System
uPVC Pipes, Injection Moulded PVC fittings and 
handmade fittings, Polypropylene Random Copolymer pipe system, HDPE Pipe Systems, CPVC 
Pipes Systems, Inspection Chambers, manholes, 
Toilets Bath fittings, Roto moulded Tanks and 
Fittings and Solvents, Industrial Piping System, 
DWC PE Pipe System and Fire Sprinkler System
Consumer 
products
Furniture 
Industrial 
Products
Industrial Components, Material handling 
System and Pallets - Roto moulded crates, pallets 
and garbage bins and Composite LPG Cylinders.
Packaging 
Products
Flexible packaging film products, Protective 
Packaging Products, Cross Laminated Film 
products.
PRODUCT GROUP WISE SHARE IN TURNOVER FOR 
THE LAST TWO YEARS (% OF VALUE)
Plastics Piping 
System 63% Packaging 
Products 18%
Industrial 
Products 12% 
Consumer 
Products 7%
2019-20
Plastics Piping 
System 58% Packaging 
Products 19%
Industrial 
Products 16% 
Consumer 
Products 7%
2018-19
The net turnover (including other income) of the Company 
for the year under review was r 5530.07 Crores (including 
r 32.52 Crores by way of trading in other related products 
and r 25.60 crores from sale of Premises) as against r 5632.47 
Crores (including r 46.36 Crores by way of trading in other 
related products and r 80.85 crores from sale of Premises) 
during the previous year.
The Company has sold 4,11,521 tons of Plastic products as 
against 3,97,983 tons of Plastic products in the corresponding 
period of previous year, reflecting a growth of 3.40 % in 
product turnover by volume. 
The Company exported goods worth US $ 18.29 million as 
against US $ 23.05 million during the corresponding period 
of the previous year. Profit before interest, depreciation and 
exceptional items and taxes during the period under review 
have been at r 853.71 Crores as against r 804.57 Crores during 
the previous year.
3. COMPANY’S STRENGTH AND GROWTH DRIVERS
3.1 Manufacturing Sites
The Company is operating from 25 manufacturing sites 
operating across 12 state and Union Territories. The Company 
is in the process to create state-of-the-art Plastics Product 
Complex at Jadcherla in Telangana state. The unit will be 
adding several new systems in its product portfolio to serve 
Agriculture, Housing and infrastructure sectors in a costefficient manner. The Company has initiated actions to put up 
a Plastics Product Complex at Orissa for which an agreement 
has been entered into to buy 30 (Thirty) Acres of Land to 
expand its geographical spread.
ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
31
3.2 Distribution network
The Company is committed to having its presence throughout 
the country. It is able to increase and also revamping its existing 
distribution network on a continuous basis. The active channel 
partners’ strength remained at 3,567 Nos. by end of March 
2020.
With a renewed push to reach more International Markets, the 
Company has participated in 16 International exhibitions in 
2019-20 for its different products. The company is confident to 
have breakthrough to boost export in additional world markets 
in the year.
Company is serving its customers through maintaining more 
depots for its different product groups to serve its customers 
in a cost efficient manner.
3.3 Growth Drivers
The Company is continuously working to strengthen its Brand. 
It is increasing its’ spend on Advertisement through Electronic 
and Print Media and participating in several National and 
International exhibitions. The Company organises large number 
of Plumbing Workshops to educate plumbers on how to install 
the piping system in a cost efficient manner. It holds thousands 
of small plumber meets spread throughout the year. Besides, 
meets with Farmers, Borer groups, Plumbing Contractors, 
Builders and Architects are also held throughout the year. 
Company is quite active to seek legal remedy to contain 
counterfeit products in its range of products to protect 
consumers from getting cheated.
Company has opened knowledge centers in several parts of 
the country to showcase its product portfolio, guide on correct 
installation techniques with a focus on plastics Pipe System 
and Cross Laminated Film products for several cost efficient 
applications
4. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
4.1 PLASTICS PIPING SYSTEMS
The Company continues its objective to grow Plastic Pipe 
System business. The Company is leader in this segment 
as it has the largest portfolio of products, which is being 
continuously increased to offer more systems as required in 
the economy.
The Company during the year under review registered an 
overall revenue growth of about 8.5% in Plastic Piping System 
made from different plastic materials. Overall the Company 
sold 3,00,772 Tons of Pipe System compared to 2,79,748 Tons 
in the previous year.
The Government at the Centre and States has put the priority 
focus on Swatch Bharat Abhiyan, Sanitation and affordable 
houses to all and development of 100 smart cities on all India 
basis. Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA) has created a major 
transformation the way housing construction for sale was in 
vogue in the Country. Many prominent Business Houses have 
made ambitious plans in this sector to grow geometrically with 
launch of their projects at multiple locations. For affordable 
housing segment Company has introduced pocket friendly 
complete drainage system under the different brand name 
“Streamline” which meets all functional requirements of the 
affordable Housing sector. The growth tempo has now started 
and the Company expects good demand coming from the 
segment on continual basis.
The Company has incurred Capex of r 126 crores in this 
year and been put to use in its’ various plants to build more 
capacities and increase range of products. 
The Company with objective of making its footprint for 
manufacturing at South Zone, for Plastic Piping Division, has 
got 50 acres of land allotted at Jadcherla-District Mahbubnagar 
at Telangana. The production of Water & Septic Tanks at that 
location has started. The Company will launch other Piping 
System products at this location in this year. The construction 
work has started for the same. The Company also intends to 
launch new specialty systems from Jadcherla plant for Piping 
System to cater to high-end applications. 
The plant at Kharagpur is fully operational. The capacity 
increase planned for PVC, HDPE & CPVC Pipes is now 
in place and operational. The Company is also exploring 
further increasing the capacity of PVC, HDPE and DWC 
Pipe at Kharagpur plant to cater to increased demand. The 
Company has also started manufacturing of Moulded Fittings 
at Kharagpur to service Eastern market effectively. Further 
capacity expansion of Moulded Fittings has been planned and 
civil work is in progress. Plant will operate with full capacity 
in third quarter of 2020-21.
To meet the increasing demand of HDPE Pipes in North India, 
the Company has put up the capacity in Malanpur Unit No.3. 
The commercial production of the same has started in full 
swing. The Company has planned further capacity expansions 
at that site for HDPE Pipes. Overall HDPE Pipe business grew 
by 46% during this year.
The company now manufactures Roto Moulded Products at 
four geography of country viz., North, South, East and West 
to service market effectively. The Roto Moulded Business 
of the company has grown by 31% during this year. The 
Company launched Roto Moulded Toilet and multi-station 
Urinal basically for construction sites, Melas and exhibitions 
during the year. Both these products are well accepted by the 
market supporting cleanliness and environment. Company 
has also introduced ready to use Toilet Block in modular 
design under the brand “Cleanage”. These modular toilets 
can be installed as single unit or in a series with multiple units 
with minimum space requirements. The Company has put 
plans in place to substantially increase the business of Water 
Tanks through different market strategy of servicing directly 
to retailers from the respective factories at many places. The 
same will be further acted upon this year to get the desired 
results. The company is also exploring to start manufacturing 
of Roto Products at new location to encash business potential 
by effective servicing. The Company also launched Premium 
range of Water Tanks branded as “Weather Shield” with added 
features such as superior thermal insulation etc., from two 
locations with good market response. Premium range Water 
Tanks are being planned for supplies from all other locations 
during 2020-21.
The production of Double Wall Corrugated HDPE Pipes 
has started from Gadegaon and Kharagpur plants with BIS 
Certification. The Company is in process to educate various 
departments the benefits of putting in place a good quality 
DWC Pipes with latest technology and using virgin certified 
raw materials in terms of performance and longer life.
The Company introduced 36 nos. of variety of Injection 
Moulded Pipe fittings during 2019-20. They all have been well 
received in the market. The Company has plan of introducing 
further new items during the year as per system requirement. 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
32
The total product portfolio in Plastic Pipe System has reached 
8314 nos., thus adding 232 products to the range of various 
Plastic Piping System compared to previous year.
The Company manufactures the cPVC Pipes at three of 
its manufacturing location and cPVC Fittings at two of its 
manufacturing locations. The Company has further expanded 
capacity of cPVC Pipe manufacturing at it’s Malanpur plant. 
The Company also plans to set up facility to make cPVC pipes 
at Jadcherla plant. The necessary machines are being ordered 
and civil work is in progress. The Company plans to add further 
capacities of CPVC Pipes at Malanpur and Kharagpur units. 
The cPVC system sales during last year grew by 17% in value 
over previous year.
The Company has started manufacturing variety of Specialized 
Valves such as Butterfly Valves, Swing Check Valves, Ball type 
non-return Valve etc.. These Valves have been designed for 
different applications like Industrial, Agriculture and Plumbing 
segment. They are made of specialized materials to ensure 
reliability & longer life also to meet best of global standards. 
The Company received positive response from the market. The 
Company intends to increase the range of Valves for Industrial 
usage in the current year.
The AQUAKRAFT Bath Fittings introduced by the Company 
is well established now including newly launched Chrome 
Plated range. There were 23 new items introduced during 
the year. The portfolio in Bath Fittings has reached to 131 
items. Company continues to import some variety of Bath 
Fittings to service local market. The Company plans to further 
complement the range during 2020-21 by introducing large 
varieties of products in Bath fittings. The Company also plans 
to enhance its manufacturing facility at Pondicherry at adjacent 
plot. The necessary work for same has started. The Bath Fittings 
sales during last year grew by 13% over previous year.
The Company’s business to Export market during the year saw a 
de-growth of 31% in US $ terms. The Company is continuously 
trying to boost its export business of Piping Systems in several 
markets.
The Division’s Value Added Products sale was 38% compared to 
37% in the previous year. The Company has also added further 
167 direct business Channel partners during the year taking 
the total to 1214 Nos.. The Company continues to expand its 
reach by appointing Distributors in areas where there is a gap. 
The Company has also started directly servicing retailers in 
selected markets for certain specific products of this division.
The Company has multiple Knowledge Centres across the 
country to train Plumbers and interact with Farmers, Architects 
and Plumbing consultants in respective zones. Currently, they 
are functioning at Gadegaon, Kochi, Malanpur and Kharagpur. 
Company expects to start such centres at more locations in 
near future. 
With the help of specialists the Company has embarked upon 
a new activity with nomenclature as “Plumbing Workshop” 
which is a full day session with Plumbers. Here the sharing is 
of latest Plumbing techniques along with applications of new 
products introduced by the Company in the recent past in 
the range. The markets have well appreciated it and there are 
numerous requests to the Company to increase the Plumbing 
Workshop numbers substantially. The Company organized 284 
Plumbing workshops in the year 2019-20 throughout the year. 
Company plans to organize close to 500 Plumbing Workshop 
during the year 2020-21. There are now more than 80,000 
Plumbers connected with the Company.
Company has started monitoring data of retailers who buy 
regularly through its distribution channels. An action plan to 
increase the number of such retailers on all India basis has 
been worked out and is being tracked. There are now more 
than 32,000 retailers connected with Piping System Business 
on regular basis.
FlameGuard, the Company’s CPVC Fire Sprinkler Systems 
has become first choice for the leading builders in Mumbai. 
In spite of the increased cost of such system as compared to 
metal system, business is growing which inspires trust in the 
system. The Company is making inroads into several markets 
to promote the system with favourable response.
To bring down the cost of the system the Company has 
developed 68 no. of fittings. Each of these fittings has passed 
the stringent testing at UL and now listed by UL. The cost of 
the Indian manufactured product will be 30-40% cheaper 
as compared to the imported fittings from USA. The Indian 
manufactured fittings will contribute approximately 65 % of 
the total cost of the system. The Company will be able to get 
more business from local and cost conscious builders in current 
financial year. All it’s pipe sizes are already approved by UL.
Product approval is a continuous process and the approvals 
are required at multiple stages apart from the approval from 
the fire department. At present the Company has approvals 
from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh fire 
departments. Apart from approvals from the regional heads, 
the Company is required to take the approvals from the 
individual Municipal Corporations.
The Company offers full support to the installer of this system. 
Product installation training is a mandatory requirement 
before the actual installation starts. The Company provides the 
technical support by providing the Bill of Quantities (BOQ) for 
the sprinkler layout of the project. The Company also does the 
value engineering to reduce the cost without compromising 
the quality of the installation.
To support environment concern, Company is gearing up 
to meet with National Green Tribunal and court directive of 
phasing out Lead stabilizers from manufacturing of different 
types of uPVC Pipes. The Company is planning a phased 
out schedule for different variety of PVC Pipes having Lead 
stabilizers to produce with Lead free stabilizers.
4.2 CONSUMER PRODUCTS
4.2.1 FURNITURE
Due to lockdown announced by the Government in second 
half of March 2020, the Company’s furniture business of 
March took a severe hit resulting in drop of annual business by 
3% in value terms and 4% in volume terms. The Company’s 
business had grown by 4% in Value terms and 3% in Volume 
terms for 11 months and was expected to grow in same ratio 
had the lockdown not been announced. The overall sales 
of organized players in Plastic Furniture segment has been 
stagnant or infact declined for 11 month period. However, the 
sales of unorganized players continued to grow at local level. 
The Company expects that with it’s range of different types of 
Furniture and brand strength coupled with countrywide reach, 
it will overcome the competition from unorganized players. 
The Company started manufacture of Roto Moulded Furniture 
with a limited range at its Kharagpur Roto Moulding Unit during 
the year. The company now manufactures furniture made with 
all three different technologies i.e Injection Moulding, Blow 
Moulding and Roto Moulding. The Company manufactures 
ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
33
furniture made with Injection Moulding at six locations spread 
across the country which are Jadcherla (Telangana), Puducherry 
(UT), Durgapur (West Bengal), Derabassi (Punjab), Gadegaon 
(Maharashtra) & Guwahati (Assam) to effectively cater different 
regions of the country. The manufacturing facility for Blow 
Moulded Furniture as well as Roto Moulded Furniture is at 
Kharagpur (West Bengal). 
The Company has been manufacturing Injection Moulded 
Furniture for 29 years and is a market leader in terms of its 
product range & quality. The Company has many firsts to its 
credit, be it in terms of technology, design or application. The 
Company was the first in India to start manufacture of Premium 
Range of Plastic Moulded Furniture using new technologies and 
materials such as Gas Injection Mouding along with Glass Filled 
Polyproplene. This has helped the Company in creating its own 
brand image which is associated with Premium Quality Plastic 
Furniture. With addition of Blow Moulding & Roto Moulding 
technology, the company now is perhaps the only Company 
in Plastic Furniture business in India to offer furniture made 
with three different processes. 
The Company’s range of Blow Moulded Tables has been well 
appreciated by various customers for its quality. The sales of 
these products grew by 8% by numbers in this segment. The 
Company now has 19 products in this segment and plans to 
introduce more products in the current year .The Company is 
optimistic about future growth from this segment and would 
look forward to expand its capacity for achieving economies of 
scale. The export potential of this segment is yet to be realized. 
However, the Company is hopeful of making breakthrough in 
exports in coming years. With the overall outlook of various 
countries looking to establish alternate source to China, the 
Company is optimistic of making the breakthrough. 
The Company started manufacture of Roto Moulded Furniture 
in Feb 2020 and could supply only small quantity of this range 
is this year. The Company introduced three models and the 
market feedback for these is encouraging. The Company plans 
to increase its product range as well as start manufacture of 
items in large demand at more locations for easy service and 
reducing the freight cost involved in this product line. 
The Company introduced total of seventeen new furniture 
models during the year. All the new models introduced during 
the year were well appreciated and the Company hopes to 
get good growth from its new introductions. The Company 
has already committed investments on new furniture moulds 
which will go into production by second half of the year and 
help in growth of business during the year.
The Company’s furniture is currently available to its customers 
through nationwide network of 13,000 retailers. The Company 
plans to add another 1500 retailers during the year. The 
Company believes that in the ensuing year, Customers will 
prefer to buy the furniture from nearest stores and avoid travel 
which will help in growth of Company’s business due to its 
vast network of retailers all across the country. The Company 
increased its strength of channel partners from 1045 to 1113 
nos. and continues to increase its presence in unrepresented 
areas. 
The Company has appointed dedicated channel partners for E 
commerce portals and plans to scale up the operations in the 
current year. The Company believes that the sales of furniture 
will partly shift from brick & mortar stores to online and thus 
is gearing up to service such sales through dedicated channel 
partners dealing in E commerce. 
The Company continues to focus on developing its export 
market and has received good acceptance by various 
customers. The Company participated in three international 
furniture exhibitions in the year. The initiative enabled it to 
showcase its wide range of furniture in various International 
markets and make them aware about the quality & range of 
products manufactured by the Company. 
The Company is in dialogue with large number of leading 
retailers in USA, Europe, UK, Japan and hope to start business 
with many of them once the COVID 19 situation is overcome. 
The Company has already completed the initial vendor 
assessment process and its Lalru Unit has cleared the SMETA 
audit required for Social Compliance by most of the Global 
large retailers.
4.3 INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
4.3.1 INDUSTRIAL COMPONENTS
After the encouraging first half of FY18-19, from Nov. 18 
onwards, unexpected slump in the demand for both Auto and 
Consumer Durables was witnessed and it lasted through Q4 
of FY18-19. However, country wide sentiment was indicating 
that there would be pick up post General Elections due in 
April-May’19. Based on this expectation, the Division planned 
6% to 8% growth during FY19-20 over FY18-19, both in 
Auto and Appliances sector. However, slow down continued 
without expected recovery in both the segments even after 
General Elections. Slowdown in Auto sector intensified due to 
various Statutory changes in Vehicle Safety Norms, impending 
BSVI implementation resulting in cautious buying, difficulties 
in availing Vehicle loans resulting from NBFC crises, Weak 
Economic sentiments due to various Global and Domestic 
factors. In case of CVs where the company has larger presence as 
TIER 1 supplier, in addition to the above stated factors, demand 
took beating due to Statutory Axle load increase and drastically 
improved Vehicle Turnaround Time ( TAT), a healthy effect of 
GST, allowing seamless Vehicle Movement across the country.
On a larger base of FY 18-19 Sales attained because of nonrecurring sizable order from ECIL for EVM sub-assemblies and 
First Quarter revenue from the hived off Khushkhera plant 
coupled with the combination of factors as stated above, the 
Division had to encounter de-growth of 27% and excluding 
these two effects, the de-growth has been about 16%. 
Ghiloth plant set up exclusively for one of the major Appliances 
manufacturer completed its first full year of operations. This 
business was shifted from Noida plant. Noida and Ghiloth 
plants put together achieved revenue growth of about 
10%. Noida plant stabilized Cooler production for one 
of its customers with improved Productivity, Quality and 
Operational efficiency. One of the Company’s major customer 
in Appliances sector from Noida plant was discontinued by 
the company as it was showing signs of bankruptcy and that’s 
what happened eventually. Although, this was a necessary 
step, obviously, it affected revenue of the plant for the year 
under review. The WCE Program which was launched for both 
Noida and Ghiloth plants, has started showing improvements 
and will be more visible in the years to come.
Division had one rented premises in Greater Noida which had 
been part of Noida Plant administratively. Company undertook 
a major Re-Engineering Exercise codenamed Noida Integration 
Project. Noida plant was completely relayed out with the aim 
to bring operations of both these plants at single location. This 
resulted in better space utilization, effective management 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
34
controls, improved layout, clean environment and effective 
cost management. The Company expects good results of this 
action in the future.
Since Commercial vehicle segment was severely hit and 
Talegaon plant having more dependence on Commercial 
vehicles, it suffered on revenues considerably. Company’s 
major customer for Pondy plant which manufactures Washing 
machines, encountered de-growth in the segment where 
Company’s presence is sizable. This impacted company’s 
revenue resulting in de-growth of the Division in Puducherry 
plant. Company has undertaken exercise of Business 
Rationalization with this customer which should mitigate risk 
of overdependence on one segment and improve revenues in 
future. Company received “Excellent Business Partner Award” 
from this customer, a unique recognition given for long and 
sustained mutual business association.
Chennai plant has customer base both for Appliance and 
Automotive. One of the major customers stopped manufacturing 
TVs in India and contracted out AC manufacturing to third 
party. These actions from the said customer had adverse 
impact on the revenue of Chennai plant. However, company 
has acquired new businesses from existing customers and 
added couple of new customers. It should bring positive results 
during current and future years. The expansion of the plant 
undertaken last year has been completed in March, 20 and 
became operational. 
Durgapur plant is mainly depending on Auto sector. Due 
to sluggish demand from Auto sector throughout the year, 
Division’s business had to suffer de-growth in the revenue.
There was a considerable effect on supply chain of some of our 
major customers due to non-availability of few critical materials 
from China which was shut down to contain the spread of 
Covid 19 during February’20 and March’20. Overall revenue of 
the division adversely affected during last quarter due to wide 
spread slump in the economy, supply failures from China and 
nearly half of March month shut due to Covid 19 lock down.
Appropriate steps have been taken in all plants to follow right 
protocols and Operational SOPs including Norms for Social 
Distancing, Personal Hygiene, Sanitization, Environmental 
aspects etc. to contain spread of Covid19. Health, Safety and 
Hygiene has been taken on top of agenda.
Company has taken drive to rationalize and reorient the 
machine capacities at its various locations to align it with the 
changed Product- Mix. While doing so, the new machines 
and equipment being added are equipped with the latest 
Technology, Energy efficient, designed for Good repeatability 
for better quality and improved productivity. Wherever feasible 
and cost-effective, Automation is being considered to for 
better productivity and quality. All these initiatives will ensure 
enhanced Quality, Productivity, Safety, Energy conservation 
and Cost Optimization. It is helping the Company to negate 
the impact of inflation due to various manufacturing cost 
increases and cost reductions required to be given year on 
year to customers to remain competitive. The various such 
initiatives of the Company would support Environment and 
help Go Green. Continuous focus on employee engagement 
initiatives is helping company to enhance its Human Capital. 
Overall rating of the company by its customers meets or exceeds 
their expectations. Company is considered a highly dependable 
and valuable supplier. The Journey towards excellence is being 
cultivated as a culture and will be continuous. 
4.3.2 Material Handling Products 
The footprints of Indian economy right at the beginning of the 
financial year were not encouraging. Most of the sectors of 
economy started the new year with subdued activities. The 
affect was most pronounced in Automobile, Engineering, and 
Consumer durables, Automobiles was also severely affected 
due to some statutory guidelines from Govt. and NBFC 
financial crisis.
If the Company divides the year in two halves, the first half has 
been good for material handling products division. Company’s 
MH Division has been growing in both volumes and revenue 
fighting against odds more so when most of the driving sectors 
for material handling division were not performing well.
The second half of the year has been disappointing for MHD. 
The effect appeared starting from 3rd quarter for most of the 
product range, The fourth quarter was even worse with the 
onset of COVID-19 and lockdown in March. Consequently, 
MHD ended year with a negative of 4% in volume and a 
negative of 7% in revenue. Industrial crates which are primarily 
demanded from sectors like auto, engineering, appliances, 
FMCG and retail have 2% negative in volume and 8% negative 
in revenue. The same has been with pallets which are used 
for warehousing, storage in industrial, retail and FMCG have 
shown a degrowth of around 4% in volume and 8% in revenue. 
Among the gloom, some positive strings have also flared for 
the company as few segments outshined and shown positive 
results. The Fruit and Vegetable (F&V) and Fisheries crates 
segment, even when The Company serves only the quality 
conscious customers and refrain from selling to mass markets 
and mandis abuzzed with recycled crates, have performed well 
F&V crates have particularly been impressive with an increase 
of 1.5 lakhs more units and registered a growth of around 
15% over last year. This performance was also supported by 
introduction of new models.
Dairy Crates have also performed reasonably well during the 
year and new model in Dairy crates have shown promise for 
a bigger market volume this year. 
The Roto segment has been poor both in crates, dustbins and 
pallets but the injection moulded dustbins models have shown 
positive trends and promise for good results in this year.
The bottle crates sold to other than major players have also 
been on the positive side over the last year.
There has been a massive disruption in majority of sectors i.e. 
Engineering, Appliances, Automobiles which were catered by 
the Company have lost ground in volumes. More importantly, 
the polymer prices have fallen with almost 15% in prices on 
average over the last year. 
Your company is still confident of good surge in business this 
year in fisheries, F&V, retail and FMCG segments even when we 
feel that the first quarter in all possibilities would be consumed 
by the lockdown with less activity.
The division has planned to open two new fabrication facilities 
for speedy and timely service to the customers requiring 
customised crates in both South and North regions. New 
injection moulded dustbins models and few new crates models 
have also been planned for introduction.
The Management is focussed to increase the customer coverage 
specially in East and North east, Maharasthra and Southern 
India, by filling up the vacancies and further strengthening 
ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
35
network of channel partners by adding new partners in some 
less or unrepresented areas. 
4.3.3Composite LPG Cylinder
Company revisited the design and processes with the assistance 
from its consultant in The Czech Republic to overcome the 
minor technical hick ups going unnoticed in the process and 
have updated component design and improved the processes 
following Poka-yoke system not only to have better product 
but also to optimize the costs.
The Company’s composite cylinders are also exported to 
Carribean country and its’ clients in Maldives and Somalia have 
appreciated the quality of cylinders and have placed repeat 
orders. Company’s long term customer from Korea continued 
purchasing the cylinders and is making arrangements with retail 
companies for a bigger engagement.
The Company is following up with Government and local Oil 
Companies to introduce composite LPG cylinders in domestic 
market. 
The Company addressed and settled the issues regarding the 
complaints of Composite cylinders from Bangladesh during 
the financial year. Newly designed product samples sent to 
customer at Bangladesh have been successfully tested and 
meets the required parameters. Company expects good 
business volume from this customer during the current year.
4.4 PACKAGING PRODUCTS
4.4.1 PACKAGING FILMS
Performance Films Division (PFD)
The Performance Films Division has recorded 15% growth in 
Volume and about 13% growth in Value.
The Total sale achieved was 7722 MT as against 6703 MT in 
the last year.
Last year’s expansion in capacity at the Company’s existing 
location in Khopoli has supported to overcome the de growth. 
The Company’s CI Flexographic Printing press has given more 
opportunity for the division in several Segments which has led 
to increase sales as well. Both the new equipment’s helped 
Company to deliver better quality of products and to improve 
its lead times due to the increase in flexibility of production 
capabilities. 
The addition of lamination unit, has enabled the Division to 
grow in many untapped markets/Industry/Applications. This 
also helped the Company in creating value added products 
to its portfolio. 
Exports have also grown at 1451 tons as against 1316 tons in 
the previous year. 
There has been some additional demand from Essential Product 
like Dairy Industry & Edible OIL which is the major Driver of 
Growth. The Company remains optimistic in the current year. 
Even though the Lock down will have some impact on overall 
business in first quarter of this year. However, the customer 
base will be sustained and growing due to Company’s quality, 
commitment and service. 
The Company expects to achieve volume and value growth in 
this business in the current year due to increase in customer 
base in India and abroad. This has been made possible due 
to increase in the production capacity with improved product 
mix. 
4.4.2 Protective packaging division (PPD) 
PPD has recorded de-growth of about 4% in value and 1% in 
volume during the year under review. The total sale achieved 
25,660 MT against 26,018 MT of last year. Due to outbreak 
of Covid-19 and lockdown, Sale in Feb and March affected. 
The last week of March was a total wash out. If all was ok, we 
would have achieved sale as per last year in value with 3% 
Growth in volume.
Jadcherla unit is now ready to start its commercial production 
immediately after the opening up post Covid 19 with an 
EPE plant saleable capacity of 3200 MTPA and ABF saleable 
capacity of 1440 MTPA. Also the division has installed 
conversion equipment for processing of crosslink foam blocks 
and other fabrication equipment to ensure quick services to 
the local customers. In view of the present scenario, we expect 
sales to stabilize in second quarter, but would take time to 
utilize full capacity. 
Hosur unit with all its new facilities and expansions, is now 
fully stabilized for smooth operations with projected saleable 
capacities The Division is working on major cost reduction, 
utilization of its cross linked scrap & development of several 
new products. As a result the Company expects an impetus 
to the growth of cross linked foams across the country. It shall 
consider expansions of these products once the Company 
achieves over 90% utilisation. The Company expects to achieve 
this by the last quarter of this financial year.
Special initiative was taken during the year for energy 
conservation by using alternate source of power. Major cost 
savings have been achieved during the year by using roof top 
solar panels, windmills & also buying alternate energy at all 
it’s manufacturing locations. 
Division is expecting good saving in fuel cost after installation 
of dry steam IBR boiler at Hosur unit as against conventional 
small multiple non IBR boilers. By observing the cost benefits, 
division is considering now to replace the old non IBR boiler 
at Malanpur unit & shall implement the same soon.
Protection to environment against plastic wastes is high priority 
for the division. In house R&D team and the technical experts 
are working to develop new technology for converting the 
plastic wastes to application oriented products.
Increase in productivity from the existing equipments through 
technological upgradation is another focused area for the 
division in the coming year.
All units are working for reduction of product costs and other 
expenditure to build more competitiveness in the market to 
counter local & unorganised players.
PACKAGING –
Packaging vertical had a degrowth 8% in value and 7.1% in 
volume as against last year.
While absolute volume of sheets & rolls did not show a decline, 
tonnage growth was negative in view of density reduction 
achieved over the last year.
The division has decided to modify the existing single screw 
extruder at Urse with newly developed technology to produce 
low density EPE foam which is in demand in West zone. Due 
to Covid-19 delay, the Company expects this to be in place 
by the end of second quarter.
The demand of EVA based skin friendly non-toxic certified 
grade Yoga mat is now increasing against Chinese NBR PVC 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
36
Foam Yoga mat. In-house technical team has designed and 
developed several types of mats to meet the requirement of 
different segments.
The production of Interlock mat started two years ago, Initially 
it was difficult to compete against Chinese products. R&D team 
has successfully developed multiple variants of interlock mats for 
sports and general purpose use. Kabaddi Association of India has 
already started using this product and the division is expecting 
good business growth during the coming year. The technical team 
is working for further cost reduction to remain competitive.
CIVIL
Civil business degrowth was 11.4% in value and 9.8% in 
volume in current year. 
BIS certification has helped to capture business in major 
government projects during the year. Dura floor protector 
which was developed by the division by using Silpaulin and EPE 
foam, is growing and expecting further growth in the coming 
year. In many projects, low cost inferior quality products are 
used in expansion joints at cheaper prices. The Company’s 
technical team has developed low cost products to match 
the lower end product of competitors, with better properties. 
Production of new range of floor protection mat has been 
started at Hosur. It is expected to have good business growth 
from this new product in different applications. 
INSULATION
Insulation business has grown by 8.8% value and 13.6% 
volume in the current year. The division has initiated several 
technological steps during the year to overcome market 
competition by introducing low density certified products 
for Insulation application. The division has started supplying 
special grade chemically cross link foam to Railway Coach 
factory, which was developed last year as an import substitute. 
The division has expanded its reach to many small towns. Once 
things open up, the Company expects better business in the 
coming year.
Acoustic panel which was developed last year by using XLPE 
waste is slowly picking up in sales. This will help in reduced 
sale of cross linked scrap. 
Commercial production of NBR PVC Foam product which was 
started at Malanpur unit is growing well due to superior quality 
against other competitors. By modifying the existing design of 
the equipment, higher productivity of sheet and tube has been 
successfully achieved. The compounding cost has significantly 
dropped by using indigenous materials. It is expected to have 
good business growth during the coming year. 
EXPORTS
From r 770 lakhs Export last year, Division achieved an 
export sale of r 1229 lakhs. The Company has developed & 
are developing several new products for the export market. 
The Company believes that many buyers will reduce their 
dependence on China, providing good opportunity for the 
division. The Company expects significant growth in exports 
during 2020-21.
TECHNOLOGY
Inhouse technical team has designed and developed new 
generation single screw extruder of 100 kgs/hr on pilot scale 
which was successfully installed at Hosur and commercial 
production started with better foam quality and higher 
productivity with low density, compared to extruders making 
similar product. Division has decided to modify all its old single 
screw extruders by using this new technology thereby reducing 
density & costs. The division has been given a National award 
by the Ministry of Chemicals & Petrochemicals, for this 
innovation in the category of Innovation in Polymer processing 
machinery & equipments. Indeed a proud moment for the 
divison & the company. Low cost ABF plant was developed by 
it’s technical team through a Chinese vendor by using European 
technology at low cost for Jadcherla unit.
COST REDUCTION
The Company has shifted to indigenous Chemicals/Additives 
during the last quarter of the year, which will offset not only 
effect of Rupee depreciation but will also reduce lead time 
and will reduce compounding and inventory cost. 
Post Covid-19, the division has made a revised plan of further 
cost reduction & increased introduction of new products to 
improve profitability
4.4.3 CROSS LAMINATED FILM
The Business of Cross Laminated Film & Products had a degrowth of 13.11% in volume terms mainly due to significantly 
lower business in the month of March 2020. The nationwide 
lockdown has completely disrupted the demand supply chain.
Company’s plants have become operational after a gap of over 
one month. The Government granted partial relaxation from 
lockdown w.e.f. 20th April 2020. However running plant at 
full capacity is still a distant reality due to paucity of workers 
as several workers have left the work place due to prolonged 
lockdown. 
The main product of the company i.e tarpaulin is seasonal 
in nature with peak season between March to June. The 
disruption in demand supply chain with movement restrictions 
in place due to COVID-19 pandemic has affected business 
in April 2020. This will have some adverse impact on the 
Company’s business in the first quarter. 
The good news is that the demand for company’s product has 
started picking up and is expected to improve further once 
more economic activities are opened during lockdown. The 
Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted a 
normal monsoon in the year 2020 spelling some cheer to the 
agricultural sector amid the COVID-19 lockdown. Agriculture 
is expected to be the bright spot for the country in the year 
2020-21 which augurs well for the Company’s business as the 
Company’s product finds uses in many agriculture applications. 
The share of fabricated products is increasing steadily. The 
Company has made improvements in the existing fabricated 
products based on the feedback received from the customers 
and also developed new fabricated products which after 
successful trials will be launched during the current year. 
The products developed by laminating the XF film with other 
substrates has met with a great success in U.K.. The Company 
plans to market these laminated products in other world 
markets and in local market. The Company strongly believes 
that these fabricated / laminated products have great future 
in years to come. 
The Company’s tarpaulins made of own generated unusable 
Reprocess Granules meant to target the low cost Tarpaulin 
segment has had the desired results. The company has not sold 
a single kg of reprocess granule during the year under review 
speaks volumes of the interest this product has generated in 
the market. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
37
The Company during the year has successfully installed balancing 
equipment to substantially increase the manufacturing capacity 
of Cross Line Bonded Film. With additional capacity in place 
the company can now offer the entire volume of its products 
in Cross Line Bonded Film. Besides being superior in quality 
this film enables the domestic/global market to distinguish the 
Company’s products from look alike products of competitors. 
This product enjoys patent protection. 
The Company is working intensively to increase its’ volume 
in world market. There is repeat demand for its products for 
several newer applications in different world markets. The 
Company expects its’ business to grow in world market in the 
years to come.
5. FINANCE
1. A brief on borrowing levels and finance cost is given below :
1.1 Summary
Particulars Measure F.Y.
2019-20
F.Y.
2018-19
Net borrowing level at the 
end of the year
r In 
crores
216.42 160.94
Average Monthly 
Borrowings
r in 
crores
205.02 265.58
Interest & finance charges 
(after removing the first 
time effect of IND AS116)
r In 
crores
16.13 26.00
Average cost of borrowings 
at the end of the year
% p. a 8.35 8.23
Financial cost as a % of 
Turnover
% 0.29 0.40
Total Net Debt : Equity Ratio 0.10 0.08
1.2 With the slowdown in the economy during the Calendar year 
2019 RBI reduced the Key policy rates by 135 bps in five 
successive rate cuts starting from February, 2019. From time 
to time RBI has also infused liquidity in the system to boost 
the economy. The Repo rate which was at 6.50% at the start 
of the Calendar Year was reduced to 5.15% by the end of 
the Calendar year. Thereafter at the end of March 2020 due 
to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic related lockdowns & 
social distancing, all the economic activities were standstill 
& due to rising probability of recessionary trend in Global & 
Indian Economy, RBI has reduced repo rates by 75 bps at one 
stretch & also undertaken other aggressive measures to mitigate 
negative effect of virus, revive growth & to preserve financial 
stability. In line with the overall lower interest rate regime and 
with better working capital management, Company reduced 
its Finance cost to 0.29% of its Turnover at the end of the year 
vis a vis 0.40% of Turnover at the end of 31st March 2019.
1.3 Owing to the extra ordinary & unprecedented situation arising 
out of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic and national 
lockdown, operations at all the units of the company were 
suspended barring supplies of packaging material and piping 
products for essential commodities and agriculture with 
effect from 20th March 2020. Company had taken conscious 
decision and availed short term borrowings to the tune of r 270 
crores by way of Working Capital Demand Loans (WCDL) with 
a view to meet all its committed obligations in normal course in 
timely manner & to create war chest to meet any eventuality.
2. Working Capital Borrowing
2.1. Foreign Currency Borrowing
During the year under review, Company continued to avail 
Buyer’s credit (BC) funding, directly from overseas lenders at 
competitive rates. Total cumulative BCs availed during the F.Y. 
2019-20, amounted to $ 35.12 Mill.
Between July, 2019 to August, 2019 the rupee depreciated by 
around 3.50% vis-à-vis dollar & thereafter it remained steady at 
depreciated level. In the beginning of the Calendar Year 2020 
after marginal appreciation, it again depreciated by around 5 
% by end of March 2020.
As per the past trend, the company has kept judicious & 
consistent hedging policy to mitigate risk arising out of foreign 
currency fluctuation. 
2.2. Commercial Papers
During the year under review, the Company placed cost 
effective Commercial Papers (CPs) in the market to the tune 
of r 445 Crs. to avail low cost INR funding. 
2.3. Dealers’ financing & Vendor Management
The Dealers’ finance facilities extended to the several Channel 
Partners of the Company has progressed well with more & 
more Channel Partners are getting enrolled on the Channel 
Finance Scheme. Considering the performance and peak 
season requirements, our banking partners are willing to extend 
additional facilities to meet seasonal requirements and also 
extending credit terms to them to tide over crises arisen due 
to pandemic Covid-19.
2.4 The company continues to negotiate favourable credit terms 
with its bankers as well as vendors for effectively managing its 
working capital requirements at optimum cost.
3. Term Debt :
During the year under review, the Company continued to 
remain debt free except for its Working capital facilities.
4. CRISIL Rating
During the year under review, a) the Rating for Company’s 
Short term bank facilities continued to enjoy “CRISIL A1+” 
rating by CRISIL (which is the highest rating for the Short term 
instruments). And b) Company continued to enjoy Rating for 
Long Term Bank facilities at “CRISIL AA Stable Outlook”.
5. Capital Expenditure
5.1. Considering optimistic business growth potential, the Company 
has incurred Capital Expenditure (Capex) of r 241 crores, 
during the year under review. The highlights of the Capex 
incurred are as follows.
a) Putting another Unit at Pondy new site to increase Bath 
fitting capacity
b) Expanding Roto Moulding Capacity at Jadcherla
c) Adding several varieties of Injection Moulding and Blow 
moulded furniture in the Company’s range of furniture
d) Installing additional equipment to increase production of 
XL Bonded XF film at Its’ Silvassa and Get Muvala Units.
e) To add end of the line fabrication machines for 
performance packaging films.
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
38
f) To install balancing machines in Protective Packaging 
Division 
g) To increase capacity at Gadegaon and replace certain 
old machines at Lalru plant and to invest in moulds for 
increased product range in Material Handling Products 
h) To expand capacities in Industrial Product Division at 
Giloth and Chennai moulding unit 
Apart from above, Company also made capex commitment 
for about r 182 Crs and the same shall go into production/
use during the course of current year which primarily includes 
capex for:
(a) Putting Moulding shop to make pipe fittings at Kharagpur 
complex
(b) Establishing capacity to manufacture PVC Pipe System/
HDPE Fittings/CPVC Pipe System/PEX Piping system at 
Jadcherla
(c) Adding varieties of injection Moulded, Blow moulded 
and Roto moulded furniture in the Company’s range of 
furniture
5.2. During the current year i.e. 2020-21, the Company envisages 
further Capex in the range of about r 150 to 200 crores in the 
existing locations and new projects, mainly on the following.
a) To increase PVC Pipe capacity at Kanpur, Gadegaon and 
Kharagpur.
b) To increase HDPE Pipe capacity at Malanpur, Gadegaon 
and Kharagpur.
c) To increase DWC Pipe capacity at Kharagpur.
d) To increase CPVC Pipe capacity at Malanpur and 
Kharagpur.
e) Adding several capacities of Water Tank moulds and 
additional Roto Moulding machines.
5.3 New Projects:
a) Orissa State: The Company has negotiated purchase of 
30 acre land to put up Plastic Piping complex at Orissa. 
Due to lockdown the legal possession of the land has 
been delayed. The Company will initiate actions to put 
the complex after the possession of the Land.
b) The drawings of various equipment to put up Cross Plastic 
Film project at Get Muvala are under preparation in 
Romania and Switzerland. Due to Covid-19 lockdown the 
process is taking more time to finalise the drawings. The 
Company will move expeditiously after working drawings 
are frozen to put up the Plant.
The company has realized r 25.60 Crores from sale of its 
remaining block (one unit) consisting of 12540 sq fts of its 
commercial premises of Supreme Chambers. Consequent 
to the above sale, Inventory of the Commercial Premises has 
become NIL. 
With the sale of all the premises from time to time over the 
years the company has realized in excess of r 428 Crs. against 
the project investment of about r 150 Crs. which helped the 
Company to strengthen its cash flow for better use in its core 
business.
6. At the Closure of the Financial Year 2019-2020, the company 
has divested its 20.67% Equity stake in its joint venture 
company viz Kumi Supreme India Pvt Ltd to Kumi (Thailand), 
nominees of Kumi Kasei Co Ltd, Japan for an aggregate 
consideration of r 24.32 Crs. as per the mutual understanding 
arrived at with the majority partner viz. Kumi Kasei Japan. 
In view of unprecedented & difficult times the company’s 
focus shall remain on all critical areas of cost control and cost 
reduction thereof and the finance cost being one of them shall 
always be a focal point for constant optimization. 
6. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The Company has adequate internal audit and control systems. 
Internal auditors comprising of professional firms of Chartered 
Accountants have been entrusted the job to conduct regular 
internal audits and risk based audits at all units/ locations and 
report to the management the lapses, if any. Both internal 
auditors and statutory auditors independently evaluate the 
adequacy of internal control system. Based on the audit 
observations and suggestions, follow up, remedial measures 
are being taken including review and increase in the scope of 
coverage, if necessary. The Audit Committee of Directors, in 
its periodical meetings, review the adequacy of internal control 
systems and procedures and suggest areas of improvements.
The Company has undertaken a detailed exercise to revisit 
its control systems in technical and other non financial 
areas to align them properly with Management Information 
Systems (MIS) to make MIS more efficient and result oriented. 
Information technology base created by the Company over 
the period is providing a very useful helping hand in the 
process. Needless to mention, that ensuring maintenance of 
proper accounting records, safeguarding assets against loss and 
misappropriation, compliance of applicable laws, rules and 
regulations and providing reasonable assurance against fraud 
and errors will continue to remain central point of the entire 
control systems.
7. HUMAN RESOURCES
Human resource is considered as key to the future growth 
strategy of the Company and looks upon to focus its efforts 
to further align human resource policies, processes and 
initiatives to meet its business needs. In order to focus on 
keeping employees abreast of technological and technical 
developments, the Company provides opportunity for training 
and learning within the country and abroad. Company is also 
developing its infrastructure and facilities by which many 
employees could work from home. This has helped the 
Company to continue to provide services to all its stakeholders 
during countrywide lockdown due to pandemic COVID 19. 
Industrial relations at all the units and locations are cordial. 
Cautionary Statement
Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis 
describing the Company’s objectives, expectations or 
predictions may be forward looking within the meaning of 
applicable securities, laws and regulations. Actual results 
may differ materially from those expressed in the statement. 
Important factors that would influence the Company’s 
operations include cost of raw materials, tax laws, interest and 
power cost and economic developments particularly in view 
of ongoing pandemic COVID 19 and such other factors within 
the country and the international economic and financial 
developments.

Management Discussion and Analysis
1. OVERVIEW
The year under review was the toughest in the history of the 
Company. It started with an extreme negative outlook. The 
Company had to keep operations of its 24 plants’ closed for 
most part of the month of April 2020 and could begin in a 
gradual manner from last week of April onwards complying 
the prescribed guidelines. 
In the last 10 days, just before the closing of the year, the 
business has again witnessed tough situation as Covid – 19 
second wave started affecting the general public with alarming 
speed. The situation has become further volatile due to steep 
increase in Polymer prices. The increase in prices of PVC was 
steepest. In the last 40 years, international prices of PVC have 
never reached to the levels seen in April 2021 especially in 
India, some other Latin American countries and Turkey.
The Company however has come out of these two extreme 
adverse situations with unparalleled performance where the 
profit of the Company was highest in its 79 years of operations. 
This was partly supported by more than R 200 crores inventory 
gain on account of raw material price increase which accrued 
in its operations for the year.
The Company’s focus remained to penetrate maximum Tehsils 
with larger base of retailers to have its goods reach to the 
customers with ease and in a most economical manner.
The business in most of the segments of the Company starting 
from June 2020 remained positive, barring in the month of July 
2020, where regional lock down in some parts of the Country 
affected smooth operations.
In spite of Covid-19 second wave, the Company is optimistic 
about further growth prospects. The country’s war against 
Covid-19 was strengthened with successful developments 
of vaccines by two local producers and more producers / 
suppliers may offer from India and abroad to implement 
massive vaccination programme undertaken by the country.
Even with temporary setback which the Company is 
experiencing in the month of April 2021, the Company has 
not reduced its Capex plan for the year 2021-22. In the current 
year, not only there will be brownfield expansion of capacities 
and new products at the existing plants but Company has also 
embarked on putting up three new greenfield plants in the 
states of Assam, Orissa and Tamilnadu during the current year.
2. PRODUCT GROUPS:
The product groups of the Company have been categorised as 
under:
Group Products
Plastics 
Piping 
System
uPVC Pipes, Injection Moulded PVC fittings 
and handmade fittings, Polypropylene Random 
Co-polymer pipe system, HDPE Pipe Systems, 
CPVC Pipes Systems, Inspection Chambers, 
manholes, Toilets Bath fittings, Roto moulded 
Tanks and Fittings and Solvents, Industrial 
Piping System, DWC Pe Pipe System and Fire 
Sprinkler System
Consumer 
products
Furniture 
Industrial 
Products
Industrial Components, Material handling 
System and Pallets - Roto moulded crates, 
pallets and garbage bins and Composite LPG 
Cylinders.
Packaging 
Products
Flexible packaging film products, Protective 
Packaging Products, Cross Laminated Film 
products.
PRODUCT GROUP WISE SHARE IN TURNOVER FOR 
THE LAST TWO YEARS (% OF VALUE)
 Plastics Piping 
System 65% Packaging 
Products 17%
Industrial 
Products 12% 
Consumer 
Products 6%
2020-21
 Plastics Piping 
System 63% Packaging 
Products 18%
Industrial 
Products 12% 
Consumer 
Products 7%
2019-20
The net turnover (including other income) of the Company 
for the year under review was R 6373 Crores (including 
R 122 Crores by way of trading in other related products) as 
against R 5530 Crores (including R 33 Crores by way of trading 
in other related products and R 26 crores from sale of Premises) 
during the previous year.
The Company has sold 4,09,109 tons of Plastic products as 
against 4,11,521 tons of Plastic products in the previous year, 
reflecting a nominal de-growth of 1% in product turnover by 
volume. 
The Company exported goods worth US$ 18.35 million as 
against US$ 18.29 million during the corresponding period 
of the previous year. Profit before interest, depreciation and 
exceptional items and taxes during the period under review 
have been at R 1300 Crores as against R 854 Crores during 
the previous year.
3. COMPANY’S STRENGTH AND GROWTH DRIVERS
3.1 Manufacturing Sites
The Company is operating from 25 manufacturing sites across 
12 states and Union Territories. The Company has initiated 
steps to put up two plastic products complex in the state of 
Orissa and Tamilnadu. The Company is also in the process to 
put up Plastic Pipe Systems manufacturing facility in the state 
of Assam.
3.2 Distribution network
The Company is committed to reach all the Tehsil areas of the 
Country. The Company is able to establish Dealer network 
in hundreds of Tehsils during the year, where Company’s 
products reach was either not there or was very poor. The 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 31
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-2021
Company’s active channels partner’s strength increased to 
4,034 Nos. in March 2021 from 3,567 Nos. at the end of 
March 2020.
The Covid-19 threw a dampener in Company’s reaching new 
world markets, as international exhibitions for it’s products 
were mostly non-existent.
The Company continues to open more depots and fabrication 
facilities to service it’s customers in a cost efficient manner. The 
Company now has 37 nos. of depots and fabrication facilities 
for its various products group.
3.3 Growth Drivers
The Company’s spend on TV advertisement in the epic 
serial Ramayana and Mahabharata and in IPL series telecast 
during the year strengthened it’s brand further. The Company 
extended financial help to 71,007 plumbers in the month of 
April / May 2020 to support their livelihood as their income 
streams were disrupted due to all India lockdown.
The Company has conducted large nos. of plumber meets with 
smaller groups to maintain appropriate discipline in Covid-19 
atmosphere by keeping safe distance to prevent infection while 
providing training to Plumbers.
The counterfeit products are being introduced by some 
unscrupulous players in a large way in it’s Pipe System, 
Cross Laminated film and Furniture product segments. The 
Company is quite active in seeking legal remedy to protect 
consumers from getting cheated. The Company has been 
successful in addressing this menace which however looks to 
be a continuous process.
3.4 Renewable Energy – a way forward
The Company is committed and has taken very focused 
approach to ensure that it uses more and more green and 
renewal energy and becomes more environment friendly. Initial 
steps had been taken earlier by installing captive generation 
solar plants at Gadegaon and Kharagpur plants. Further Rooftop 
Solar plants have been operational / under installation at all 
three units at Malanpur (M.P.), Hosur (Tamilnadu), Jadcherla 
(Telangana) and Gadegaon (Maharashtra) under OPEX Model.
The Company is also using wind and solar power through 
Captive consumer / open access mode. During the current 
year, the Company has committed R 35 Crores towards further 
installation of roof top solar plants at its various locations. The 
process of using more and more renewable energy shall be 
continued and the Company would continue to commit more 
capex every year for the same. The Company wishes to be 
carbon neutral at the earliest feasible and would pursue this 
vision in a focused manner by taking various effective steps 
and allocating more resources.
4. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
4.1 PLASTICS PIPING SYSTEMS
The Company continues its objective to grow Plastic Pipe 
System business. The Company is leader in this segment 
as it has the largest portfolio of products, which is being 
continuously increased, to offer more systems as required in 
the economy.
The Company during the year under review registered an 
overall revenue growth of about 18.5% in Plastic Piping System 
made from different plastic materials. Overall the Company 
sold 2,94,357 Tons of Pipe System compared to 3,00,772 Tons 
in the previous year.
In the previous year the business was affected severely due to 
complete lockdown in April 2020 and then gradual lifting of 
business in May 2020. The business was again affected in July 
2020 due to intermittent regional lockdowns. This has led to 
de-growth in volume for the full year.
PVC is the predominant raw material in the Company’s 
Plastic Pipe business. The prices of PVC were in 
downward trend from 18th March 2020 till first half of 
May 2020. Overall prices of PVC had gone down by 
R 13.50 / kg during that time. Thereafter beginning 18th May 
2020 prices of PVC started continuously increasing month after 
month upto April 2021. The prices have increased by approx. 
R.70 per kg upto 31st March 2021. This has affected country’s 
PVC consumption which has seed de-growth by around 16% 
in volume for the year. The Company also had a de-growth 
of around 3% in PVC piping system by volume. This steep 
increase in prices have led to de-growth in Agriculture Pipe 
segment. The increase in prices has also resulted in inventory 
gain of around R 180 crores for the full year in the Company’s 
working of Plastic Pipe system for the year.
The Government at the Centre and States has put the priority 
focus on Jal Jeevan Mission, Swatch Bharat Abhiyan, Sanitation 
and affordable houses to all and development of 100 smart 
cities on all India basis. NITI Aayog has declared following as 
growth drivers across the country:
	 •	 Government infrastructure spending
	 •	 Increasing construction
	 •	 Increasing Industrial production
	 •	 Rising demand from irrigation sector
	 •	 Replacement of aging Pipes
	 •	 Providing affordable house to all
	 •	 Heavy investment by Government in irrigation,
housing and sanitization 
Almost all the above growth drivers will boost the business of 
Plastic Piping System Division.
Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA) has created a major 
transformation the way housing construction for sale was in 
vogue in the Country. Many prominent Business Houses have 
made ambitious plans in this sector to grow geometrically with 
launch of their projects at multiple locations. For affordable 
housing segment Company has introduced customer friendly 
drainage system under the different brand name “Streamline” 
which meets all functional requirements of the affordable 
Housing sector. The growth tempo has now started and the 
Company expects good demand coming from the segment on 
continual basis.
The Company incurred Capex of R 225 crore in the year 
under reviewr in its various plants to build more capacities 
and increase range. Majority of them have been put to use.
The Company with objective of making its footprint for 
manufacturing at South Zone, for Plastic Piping Division, 
has got 50 acres of land allotted at Jadcherla-District 
Mahaboobnagar at Telangana. The production of PVC Pipes, 
cPVC Pipes, Water & Septic Tanks at this location has started. 
The machinery installation work for PEX system and Olefins 
moulded fittings are getting completed. The Company will 
launch these products at this location in July’21-Sep’21 quarter. 
The plant at Kharagpur is fully operational. The Company 
has started necessary civil and machine ordering work for 
further increasing the capacity of HDPE and DWC Pipes at 
Kharagpur plant to cater to increased demand. The Company 
has also started manufacturing of Moulded Fittings at Kharagpur 
to service Eastern market cost effectively. Further capacity 
expansion of Moulded Fittings has been planned and civil 
32 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-2021
work is complete. Plant will operate with full capacity by third 
quarter of 2021-22.
To meet the increasing demand of HDPE Pipes in North India, 
the Company has put up the capacity in Malanpur Unit No.3. 
The commercial production of the same including expansion 
has started in full swing. Overall HDPE Pipe business had a 
de-growth of 5% by volume during this year.
The Company now manufactures Roto Moulded Products 
at all four geographies of country viz., North, South, East 
and West to service these market cost effectively. The Roto 
Moulded Business of the company has grown by 57% during 
the year under review. The Company has put plans in place 
to substantially increase the business of Water Tanks through 
different market strategy of servicing directly to retailers from 
the respective factories at many places. The same will be 
further acted upon this year to get the desired results. The 
Company is also going to start manufacturing of Roto Products 
at new locations to increase market share by cost effective 
servicing. The Company also launched Premium range of 
Water Tanks branded as “Weather Shield” with added features 
such as superior thermal insulation etc., from three locations 
with good market response. 
The production of Double Wall Corrugated HDPE Pipes 
has started from Gadegaon and Kharagpur plants with BIS 
Certification. The Company is in process to educate various 
departments the benefits of putting in place a good quality 
DWC Pipes with latest technology and using virgin certified 
raw materials in terms of performance and longer life.
The Company introduced 154 nos. of variety of Injection 
Moulded Pipe fittings during 2020-21. They all have been well 
received in the market. The Company has plans of introducing 
further new items during the year as per system requirement. 
The total product portfolio in Plastic Pipe System has reached 
8774 nos., thus adding 460 products to the range of various 
Plastic Piping System compared to previous year.
The Company manufactures the cPVC Pipes at four of its 
manufacturing locations and cPVC Fittings at two of its 
manufacturing locations. The production of cPVC pipes 
at Jadcherla plant is fully functional with necessary BIS 
certification. The cPVC system sales during the year under 
review grew by 13% in value over previous year.
The Company plans to start three new manufacturing units 
at new locations viz. Guwahati (Assam), Cuttack (Odisha) 
and Perundurai (Tamil Nadu) for Plastic Pipes, Water Tanks, 
Septic Tanks etc.. At Guwahati the Company will start 
production in rented premises. It is a green field project and 
entire construction is done as per Company’s specification. 
Factory is likely to start in 3rd quarter of this year. At Cuttack 
the Company has already taken 29 acres of land and are in 
the process of further taking 4-5 acres of land which are plots 
in between and after taking these plots the land will become 
contiguous. The Company has already awarded the Civil and 
PEB contracts for same and construction is likely to start in 
May 2021 this year. The Company plans to start the first phase 
production at Cuttack unit by December’21. At Perundurai 
(Tamilnadu) the Company has taken 32 acres of land from 
SIPCOT at their fully developed Industrial State. Various 
contracts will be finalized shortly.
The Company has started manufacturing variety of Specialized 
Valves such as Butterfly Valves, Swing Check Valves, Ball type 
non-return Valve etc. These Valves have been designed for 
different applications like Industrial, Agriculture and Plumbing 
segment. They are made of specialized materials to ensure 
reliability & longer life and also to meet best of global standards. 
The Company has received positive response from the market. 
The Company intends to increase the range of Valves for 
Industrial usage in the current year.
The AQUAKRAFT Bath Fittings introduced by the Company 
is well established now including newly launched Chrome 
Plated range. There were 28 new items introduced during the 
year. The portfolio in Bath Fittings has reached to 124 items. 
Company continues to import some variety of Bath Fittings 
to service local market only for selected items. The Company 
plans to further complement the range during 2021-22 by 
introducing large varieties of products in Bath fittings. The 
Company also plans to enhance its manufacturing facility at 
Pondicherry at adjacent plot. The necessary work for same is 
likely to get completed by August’21. The Bath Fittings sales 
during the year under review grew by 58% over corresponding 
previous year.
The Company’s business to Export market during the year saw 
a de-growth of 44% in US $ terms more because of Corona 
Pandemic situation. The Company is continuously trying to 
boost its export business of Piping Systems in several markets.
The Division’s Value-Added Products sale was 39.7% 
compared to 38% in the previous year. The Company has also 
added further 154 direct business Channel partners during 
the year taking the total to 1368 Numbers. The Company 
continues to expand its reach by appointing new Distributors 
in areas where there is a gap in servicing. The Company has 
also started directly servicing retailers in selected markets for 
certain specific products of this division.
The Company has set up multiple Knowledge Centres across 
the country to train Plumbers and interact with Farmers, 
Architects and Plumbing consultants in respective zones. 
Currently, they are functioning at Gadegaon, Kochi, Malanpur 
and Kharagpur. Company expects to start such centres at more 
locations in near future alongside the new upcoming units. 
With the help of specialists the Company has embarked upon 
a new activity with nomenclature as “Plumbing Workshop” 
which is a full day session with Plumbers. Here the sharing is 
of latest Plumbing techniques along with applications of new 
products introduced by the Company in the recent past in 
the range. The markets have well appreciated it and there is 
pressure on Company to increase the Plumbing Workshop 
numbers substantially. The Company could organize only 61 
Plumbing workshops in the year 2020-21 owing to corona 
pandemic. Company plans to continue organizing the 
Plumbing Workshops based on situation during the year 2021-
22. There are now more than 90,000 Plumbers connected 
with the Company.
Company has started monitoring data of retailers who buy 
regularly through its distribution channels. An action plan to 
increase the number of such retailers on all India basis has 
been worked out and is being tracked. There are now more 
than 35,900 retailers connected with Piping System Business 
on regular basis.
FlameGuard CPVC pipe system made by the Company is 
considered as a very safe material for the use in fire sprinkler 
system in many parts of the country. 
Unlike plumbing system, a fire sprinkler system requires 
multiple approvals. In last financial year Karnataka issued 
approval order for the use of CPVC system in fire sprinkler 
system. This will help to promote the system in Karnataka 
market. The approvals are also obtained from Pune and KalyanDombivali Municipal Corporations. In Gujarat the use of the 
system has started in Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Mehsana towns.
Higher cost of the system is still a major concern. To bring down 
the cost company has started manufacturing the compound 
locally and supply of locally made fittings in India.
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 33
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-2021
The cost of the GI pipes for fire sprinkler has shown steep 
increase and the price gap between metal and CPVC system 
has reduced considerably. The system has limited success in a 
part of the country where MS pipe is still considered as material 
for installation in sprinkler system instead of GI pipe. The cost 
of the MS pipe is approximately 20-25% less compared to GI 
pipe system. 
The revision of the Indian standards for this system is in stage 
of finalisation and are expected to be published in this FY 
21-22. Real boost for the CPVC sprinkler system business is 
expected only after all standards are in place.
Product installation training for this system is a mandatory 
requirement before the actual installation starts to avoid 
hiccups. The Company provides the technical support by 
providing the Bill of Quantities (BOQ) from the sprinkler 
layout of the project. The Company also offers full support to 
the installer including the value engineering to reduce the cost 
without compromising the quality of the installation.
To support environment concern, Company is gearing up 
to meet with National Green Tribunal directive of phasing 
out Lead stabilizers from manufacturing of different types of 
uPVC Pipes. The Company has already started using lead free 
stabilisers in certain piping system. In other system a schedule 
has been drawn to phase out lead stabilisers.
4.2 CONSUMER PRODUCTS
4.2.1 FURNITURE
The Company’s furniture business declined by 5% in value 
terms over last year and 10% in volume terms due to lockdown 
which had a severe impact on the furniture business for 1st 
Quarter. The sales of 1st Quarter declined by a steep 70% over 
last year same period. However, the business started picking 
up from 2nd quarter and showed growth only from 3rd quarter 
onwards. 
Furniture demand was adversely affected due to pandemic 
restrictions as a large part of furniture sales come from Schools, 
Colleges, Hotels, Restaurants, Decorators, Marriage Places 
etc and this segment had a severe impact on their business 
due to the pandemic. Even the Govt buying for furniture was 
restricted as the focus was on healthcare and most of the funds 
were diverted for the same. Some of the key markets remained 
partially closed during the 2nd & 3rd quarter with restricted 
activities. However, the Company could achieve similar sales 
in 2nd quarter as last year same period and had good growth 
in 3rd & 4th quarter indicating signs of growth for 2021-22. 
The Company manufactures furniture made with all three 
different processes i.e Injection Moulding, Blow Moulding 
& Roto Moulding. The company has been manufacturing 
Injection Moulded furniture for 30 years and is a market leader 
in terms of it’s wide range & quality. Currently, the company 
manufactures injection moulded furniture at 6 locations 
viz Pondicherry (UT), Durgapur ( West Bengal), Guwahati 
(Assam), Gadegaon (Maharashtra), Lalru (Punjab) & Jadcherla 
(Telangana) to cater to customers effectively in different parts 
of the country. The Company’s Jadcherla plant is now well 
established and will be able to cater to adjoining markets cost 
efficiently. 
During the year, the Company’s sale of Blow Moulded table 
range grew by 24% over last year driven by good demand 
of compact folding tables for ‘Work From Home’ and sales 
through E-commerce. The company’s range of Blow Moulded 
tables is now well established and poised for good growth. The 
company’s plan for adding 2 new models in this segment was 
delayed due to pandemic and are likely to be introduced in 
first half of 2021-22. 
The Company had started manufacture of Roto Moulded 
Furniture in Feb 2020 and thereafter due to lockdown this 
segment could not be properly marketed as Kindergarten 
Schools which is one of the largest customers of the product 
launched were closed all through the year due to the 
pandemic. The Company plans to launch variety of models 
in Roto Moulded Furniture catering to different segments and 
is in the process of identifying suitable furniture which can be 
made through Roto Moulding. 
The Company introduced 5 new models during the year and 
all the models introduced were unique and cater to premium 
segment. Out of the 5 new models, 4 models were introduced 
with Gas Injection moulding technology using glass reinforced 
polymers. All these models are unique in their design, shape 
and usage. All the new models have been very well received 
and hope to give good growth in the coming year. The 
company plans to launch another 5 new models during the 
first half of 2021-22 which will help in overall growth in the 
coming year. 
The Company is committed to make available its furniture 
across India and is aggressively working towards increasing its 
retail penetration. The Company currently has 13,650 retailers 
selling its furniture who are serviced through our network of 
1,251 channel partners. The Company plans to add 1,400 
retail outlets during the year. The Company has identified some 
of its weak markets and has planned to intensify the marketing 
activity in those markets for improving its retail penetration and 
increasing the number of channel partners in these markets. 
The Company’s furniture range is sold on various e commerce 
portals through a few dedicated channel partners. It grew by 
100% during the year and the biggest spurt in sales was seen 
post lockdown when the markets were not fully functional and 
most of the people were operating from home. The consumer 
behaviour during the year showed a major shift towards online 
shopping and the company along with its channel partners 
geared up its infrastructure to meet the sudden rising demand. 
The company is focused on increasing its online presence and 
product offerings and sees this as a future growth driver. 
The company’s export business grew by 27% over last year in 
spite of very high shipping costs, low availability of containers 
and overall increase in freight costs . The growth was majorly 
attributed to acceptance of our product by a leading retailer 
from USA as well as middle east. The company will continue 
to focus on acquiring more customers and already in dialogue 
with some other leading retailers. However, due to very steep 
increase in sea freights and furniture being a voluminous item, 
the retailers are holding on to their decision for the time being.
The recent spate of increase in Covid cases across India 
amid restrictions and partial lockdowns have thrown up new 
challenges and the company will plan to overcome these 
challenges to ensure business growth in 21-22. 
4.3 INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
4.3.1 INDUSTRIAL COMPONENTS
The year 2020-21 started with already imposed country wide 
lockdown for containment of Covid-19 Pandemic. Obviously, 
there was no good news on economic front. The Division 
mainly caters to Appliance and Automotive sectors and both 
these sectors not being Priority or Essential category, were 
not given any relaxation, thereby, these sectors were badly 
affected during first quarter with negligible sales revenue. 
Although, from latter part of May’20, relaxations in lockdown 
were gradually eased in phased manner, it took long time 
to stabilize the Supply Chain of our customers, resulting in 
34 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-2021
massive de-growth of nearly 40% in both Value and Volume 
terms, during first half of the financial year.
Company decided to use this period to carry out all round 
improvements in the area of Productivity, Quality, Cost 
Reduction and People development. The No Production/Low 
Production period was utilized to educate team members 
on World Class Management Practices, Lean Manufacturing, 
Training on identified Skill Gaps, Soft Skills etc by series of 
Virtual Learning Programs, both by the Internal and External 
Faculties. Team members from both Staff and Associate 
category from various plants of the Division were involved in 
this exercise during this period. This training helped company 
to launch Cost Management Project, code named “Rainbow 
Project” for focused cost reduction. Strategy was made and its 
implementation started to develop new businesses to improve 
Capacity Utilization of certain underutilized Machines and 
Equipment. All these actions started yielding results when 
demand recovery started during second half of the year.
Recovery started during 3rd Quarter and got further 
accelerated in 4th Quarter. The recoveries in various sectors 
of Appliances like Washing Machines, Air Conditioners, 
Coolers and Refrigerators, segments where company has 
good presence, boosted the revenue during second half of the 
year. Demand recovery in Auto sector also helped Division 
for revenue growth with significant demand up stick in all the 
Segments of company’s presence like Passenger Vehicles, Two 
Wheelers and Commercial Vehicles. This resulted in overall 
growth for the year. The Division posted decent growth, both 
in Value and Volume term at over 11% and 6% respectively
during FY 20-21 over FY 19-20.
Until second half of March’21, the Outlook for FY 21-22 was 
looking bright with the momentum which had already picked 
up in Q4 of FY 20-21. Things have become uncertain within 
a month with huge surge in Covid caseload in the country 
necessitating to put across stringent curbs by various state 
Govts. As it stands in short term, the situation is not very clear 
on Business outlook. However, company feels that Business 
scenario remains bullish in medium and long term with 
business friendly policies by the Govt. Company has planned 
need based Capacity Augmentation to handle the projected 
increased demand going forward. The new machines being 
planned are with the latest Technology, Energy efficient, 
and Robust Design for Excellent Quality and Repeatability. 
Company is also working on cost efficient Automation.
Overall rating of the company by its Customers meets or 
exceeds their expectations and the company is considered as 
one the most reliable suppliers in its area of expertise by the 
customers. This has helped the Division to get extra business 
from its customers whenever other suppliers failed to supply. 
Division is continuously striving to excel in all Operational 
Parameters as its culture. It helps company to remain cost 
efficient in this fiercely competitive supply chain to OEM 
Customers.
4.3.2 Material Handling Products 
The financial year began amid chaos, confusion and 
uncertainty. 
The most contributing sectors to this Material Handling 
Division were not operational due to lock down. The division 
took an aggressive approach and started focusing on sectors 
which were open under essential commodities, retail, FMCG 
etc. The efforts made in the initial periods of lock down paid 
off immensely as a result, the Division has grown by 12% in 
volume and 10% in revenue terms. The most heartening things 
have been the performance in sectors where the division was 
not doing well in the past.
Analysing the performance with deeper insights, the Division 
has done exceptionally well in industrial sectors, like 
Automobile, Engineering Consumer durables in later half of 
the year when majority of our users increased their production 
to meet the pent up demand due to lock down. This resulted 
in improved volume of Industrial Crates and Injection Pallets. 
The demand for one time Cargo Pallets was all time high 
due to increased exports by our customers. The Company is 
confident this trend to continue in next year as well.
As expressed earlier, the focused efforts in F & V, e-commerce, 
retail and FMCG to counter the negative effects of lockdown 
paid handsomely to your company and the division has 
grown phenomenally in F & V sector by over 38% over last 
year. Company also benefited due to inability of small players 
to keep up their supplies in the market. Company hopes to 
maintain increased share in this segment in the next year. 
Company keeps strong focus on Fisheries Jumbo Crates. For 
last few years, Company has been aggressively working to gain 
the market shares in Fisheries Jumbo Crates. This year there 
has been a growth of 20%. Aggressive efforts will continue in 
this sector and for that the Company has started production 
of Jumbo Crates at it’s Jadcherla Unit in this year.
The Company’s business to Dairy segment continues to be in 
good shape but without growth. The Company’s crate quality 
is well established and appreciated by it’s customers. The 
Company is confident of a good growth next year. 
The Roto moulded Crates and Dustbins have seen decline 
this year. There has been good demand for Injection moulded 
Dustbins by Institutions and Corporates. Encouraged by this, 
Company has decided to introduce many new models of 
Dustbins in the next year. 
The Company also plans to introduce new models in Pallets, 
Crates and Ice boxes in Roto Moulding.
The Company explored opportunities for export of it’s Crates, 
Pallets, Silpack etc. The Company has achieved reasonable 
success and Company will aggressively pursue to further 
enhance exports in the current Year. 
The Company is reputed for its high quality products and 
timely supplies which helps it to retain it’s top customers. With 
increased demand, the Division is augmenting its production 
capacities by expansion at it’s Lalru and Gadegaon Units for 
Crates and at Gadegaon for pallets with new models.
The Company has not only retained its regular customers but 
has also been able to increase numbers of customers who are 
patronizing Company’s products regularly.
The Company has opened Fabrication facility at Chennai which 
is functional and serving the Automobile and Industrial sector 
customers in vicinity of Chennai timely and efficiently hoping 
to double its turnover next year. 
The Company was not able to augment it’s Channel Network 
and widen it’s reach this year but aims to add across India 
more than 10% new partners in existing Channel Network in 
the current year. 
4.3.3 Composite LPG Cylinder
The updated component design and improved plant processes 
following Poka-yoke system have yielded excellent results with 
no customer complaints received since Q3 2019. Repeated 
orders from multiple existing as well as new customers stood 
testimony to the excellent quality of the current product 
offering.
The Company continued its current business in Maldives and 
Somalia. New customer footprints have now been established 
in Western & Central Africa, Taiwan and the Caribbean islands. 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 35
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-2021
Composite Cylinders fall under direct sales category. New 
customers could not visit India because of restrictions in travel 
due to Covid-19 which hampered our sales volume. 
There was no progress in South Korean business as 
representatives of Korean Inspection Agency could not visit 
India. Our customer is setting up Testing Facility in Korea so 
that Korean Inspectors visit to India for quality checks will be 
obviated. Owing to the very high rejections of steel cylinders 
on account of human safety issues, marketing reports have 
forecasted a very bright future for composite LPG cylinders in 
Korea. The Company expects good business in current year 
after restrictions on travel eases.
The largest Indian Oil Marketing Company, M/s Indian Oil 
Corporation Limited, purchased small quantity of Composite 
Cylinders in March 2021 for marketing trials in 4 cities of 
India. This augurs well for the long awaited introduction of 
Composite Cylinders in Indian market. 
Owing to the various favourable developments, the overall 
prospects for Composite Cylinders in the current year are 
significantly more promising for the Company. 
4.4 PACKAGING PRODUCTS
4.4.1 PACKAGING FILMS
Performance Films Division (PFD)
The Performance Films Division has recorded 1.5% growth in 
Volume.
The Total sale achieved was 7,816 MT as against 7,722 MT in 
the last year.
The Domestic markets, had a growth of around 15%, 
particularly in the dairy & oil industry. The addition of New 
Value added Product in Dairy industry with the Lamination 
capability has enabled the Division to grow in many different 
applications. This also helped the Company in adding value 
added products to its portfolio. Continuous efforts to develop 
new products will help the division grow better this year
Exports have declined. Sales were only 1,343 tons as against 
1,451 tons in the previous year, mostly because of the Covid 
situation all over. Till travel becomes normal, there may not 
be good growth in exports. However the division is committed 
to work on building its export portfolio.
The customer base will be sustained and further enlarged well 
supported by Company’s quality, commitment and service. 
The Company remains optimistic in the current year in spite 
of challenging times and environment.
With available production capacity, improved product mix 
and focus on increasing customer base, the Company expects 
to achieve volume and value growth in this business in the 
current year. 
4.4.2 Protective packaging division (PPD) 
PPD Sales turnover was 3.2% lower at R 530 Crs in FY2020-21 
vs. R 547.50 Crs in FY2019-20. Volume was lower by 7.6%. 
COVID played a spoiler in QI & part QII of last year but a 
consolidated team effort across functions in Sales/Marketing 
& Manufacturing & improved demand, the division was able 
to recover some lost ground in QIII & QIV. 
Packaging
Packaging vertical had de-growth of 2.3% in value with business 
of R 395 Crs in current year as against R 404.50 Crs last year 
and had de-growth of 8% in volume. Several new packaging 
applications were developed, resulting in a smart increase of 
business in fabricated products with increase value addition. 
This augurs well in the coming year
Civil
Civil business had a growth of 4.4% in value with sales of 
R 56 Crs in current year as against R 53.70 Crs last year. Volume 
growth was 9% primarily due to export of civil products which 
clocked a growth of 140%. This is expected to further increase, 
as Company’s products find greater acceptance in several 
international markets.
Insulation
Insulation business had a de-growth of 19% value with Business 
of R 65.89 Crs this year against R 81.17 Crs. in the previous 
year.
CPD / Retail Division
Several new variants of yoga mats were introduced this year. 
Along with an ever increasing network, CPD achieved a sale 
R 10.57 Crs @160% growth for FY2020-21 as against 
R 4.08 Crs for FY2019-20. Company’s FITSPREE brand of 
Yoga mats and allied products have been well accepted. The 
division added 74 new distributors & 3020 new retailers in 
the year under review. Moreover, the division started doing 
business with CPC (Central Police Canteen) and also expect 
to get an initial breakthrough with Canteen Stores department 
(CSD) with 4 products approvals.
Exports
From R 12.29 Crs exports last year, Division achieved exports 
of R 18.88 Crs. The Division has developed & is developing 
several new products for the export market. With the 
development of several new products, the Company expects 
significant growth in exports during 2021-22.
MANUFACTURING, INNOVATION & TECHNOLOGY
Manufacturing 
Jadcherla: The plant started its commercial production from 
July’ 2020 onwards. Capacity utilisation has been 50% in the 
9 months till March 2021. The Company expects to touch 
70% utilisation in the current year & over 80% thereafter.
Hosur: With the unit now well established, it is working on 
further improving its operational efficiencies. Several new 
products, have been introduced by the unit. This will create 
new export opportunities, besides increasing domestic 
business. This will further improve capacity utilisation in 
the coming year. Fabrication facilities are being adequately 
upgraded to offer cost effective solutions & wider range of 
products to our customers
Urse-2 plant (fabrication facility) is certified with SEDEX 4 pillar. 
A prerequisite for some of the export products. The same was 
renewed last year. 
Innovation
The design of single screw foam extruder of 300 kg/hrs capacity 
in Urse plant has been modified with a unique screw design 
which has resulted in a 14.5% higher production capacity and 
also density reduction comparable with the latest version of 
Tandem Extruder which are installed at other units. 
Through re-engineering by R&D team, the productivity of all 
foam extruders and lamination plants has been increased over 
the original equipment design capacity. The overall product 
density has been reduced by 0.5 kg/m3 without deteriorating 
the quality standards, which has resulted to material savings. 
All the units are working further for the reduction of density. 
Through technological up-gradation, the existing crosslink 
extruded foam for Insulation application has been modified 
with reduced density matching the specified values as per BS 
476 for Class 1 and Class 0.
36 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-2021
By incorporating some design changes in the equipment of 
NBR plant of Malanpur, the unit has achieved 20% higher 
production in sheets, enabling it to be more competitive in 
the market. The unit is also working on improving output of 
tubes in a similar manner. 
TPE Yoga mats have been developed as an import substitute 
and has been well received in the market. These products 
would also create additional export opportunities. 
Technology
The Company has been granted a patent (Patent no. 347416, 
A Manufacturing process for block foam) for its innovative 
method of recycling the non-recyclable crosslink waste which, 
in-general, cannot be converted with conventional methods. 
This has enabled us to use our own cross linked wastage in 
larger quantities.
As a result, Crosslink block foam variants have been developed 
with 65% recycle material (cross linked waste). 
This product is well accepted for some heavy duty packaging 
applications. Now R&D team is working on developing several 
new products by using high volume of recycled material. These 
are expected to be launched this year. The Company hopes 
to achieve almost zero sale of it’s cross linked scrap in time to 
come.
The Hot-melt Glue Adhesive coating machine has been 
modified from its original design for the use of the multipurpose 
usage as required which has enhanced our ability to make 
multiple products with significant cost savings.
The technical team reengineered the 2 stage block foam line 
resulting in increased productivity of 17% & wastage reduction 
by 5%
New Initiatives
New variant of interlock mat for various sports applications has 
been developed at Hosur by using recycled material which has 
facilitated to counter Chinese imports. The Company expects 
good business in the coming year
The division is working hard to use alternate energy sources 
like the solar & wind. Significant savings of the power cost have 
been achieved at Hosur unit and the process will be replicated 
at other units also during the current year. 
While the new year has begun with Covid-19 raring its 
serpentine head again, The Company believes that, with all 
measures taken by the Company, this year would be a good 
one for the division.
4.4.3 CROSS LAMINATED FILM
The Business of Cross Laminated Film & Products recorded 
an impressive growth of 28.50% in volume terms despite 
challenging conditions posed by COVID-19 pandemic. The 
company lost sales of almost whole of April, 2020 due to 
lockdown but came back strongly to post remarkable growth 
in sales at the backdrop of robust demand for its products. The 
growth in demand was due to intensive market penetration 
by adding new channel partners and retailers, timely supplies, 
and introduction of additional varieties in made up products 
and boost in export volume.
The healthy order book at year end suggests the growth 
in demand will continue. To cater to the growing demand 
prospect, the Company has taken steps to expand the capacity 
from 27,000 MT to 30,000 MT per annum. The Company 
has already received some equipment and the balance will 
come during the current year. Increased capacity will be fully 
operational by January 2022.
As per weather forecast by SKYMET the monsoon in India is 
predicted to be normal with no La Nina scare. This will boost 
the demand for company’s products in the coming year.
The sale of made up products has grown during the year. 
The Company expects the demand for made up products 
to grow and so has put up a new fabrication facility at Halol 
exclusively for production of these products. The Company 
has soft launched Bio-floc fish tanks in eleven States. There 
were some technical issues in those tanks. They are now being 
addressed. The Company will relaunch this product only after 
addressing those technical issues which must add value to it’s 
customers.
The Company’s economy model of tarpaulin under the brand 
name “Supreme Sathi” is well established in the low cost 
Tarpaulin segment. The same is available from it’s generated 
reprocess granules.
The division’s exports posted a strong growth of 35% up from 
1183 MT to 1600 MT in the year. The thrust in coming year 
in exports will be mainly on developing newer applications, 
entering new markets and targeting chain stores and super 
markets for sale through their online portals. The Company 
expects the exports to grow further in the coming year. 
The intermittent lock down in the European countries 
completely derailed the preparation of drawings of various 
equipment required to put up the Cross Plastic Film project. 
The project will be taken in hand only after detailed drawings 
are ready. The implementation of that project is thus delayed.
5. FINANCE
1. A brief on borrowing levels and finance cost is given below :-
1.1 Summary
Particulars Measure F.Y. 
2020-21
F.Y. 
2019-20
Net borrowing level at the 
end of the year
R in crores Surplus 
of 
759.46 
216.42 
Average Monthly Borrowings R in crores Surplus 
of 
247.94 
205.02
Interest & finance charges R in crores 9.50 20.18
Average cost of borrowings 
at the end of the year
% p.a. N.A. 8.35
Financial cost as a % of 
Turnover
% p.a 0.15 0.36
Interest Cover No. of 
Times
 137 42
Total Net Debt : Equity Ratio – – 0.10
1.2 In March 2020, Company had taken a conscious decision 
to avail short term borrowings to the tune of R 270 crores 
by way of Working Capital Demand Loans (WCDL), with a 
view to meet all its committed obligations in normal course 
in timely manner & with a view to create war chest to meet 
any eventuality in the situation arising out of lock down due to 
Covid-19 in the whole country. However with the improved 
business situation and cash flows, the company prepaid most 
of its loans by mid June 2020. All other loans were fully paid 
off as per schedule by December, 2020.
2. Working Capital Borrowing
During the year, Company dismantled its Consortium 
Arrangement and moved into Multiple Banking Arrangement 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 37
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-2021
(MBA), with a view to achieve better efficiencies at optimum 
cost.
Company is thankful to its bankers for their unstinted support 
and also for having agreed to join the MBA on fully unsecured 
basis. As such Company’s working capital facilities aggregating 
to R 1470.90 crores are totally unsecured either by way of 
Primary Security or by way of Collateral Security. This shows 
the confidence reposed by all the Bankers on the company 
and its management, supported by established track record of 
the company, improved operating margin, strong key financial 
ratios year after year. Company had already become debt free 
for its term debt in the preceding year. Now, during the year, it 
stopped borrowing for its working capital requirements as well, 
resulting in a paradigm shift from borrowing to investing its 
accumulated surplus cash into a) highest security mutual funds 
with sound parentage, high AUM (assets under management) 
and b) fixed deposits of highly rated and well established 
companies.
Company intends to use its surplus cash to continue to grow 
organically, while being open to explore the opportunities to 
grow inorganically through rightful acquisitions.
The Raw Material Prices have seen sharp upward trend during 
the year from May, 2020 onwards. In view of the healthy 
cash flow, Company could utilise its cash accruals to meet 
the increased working capital requirements as well as also 
plan its material procurement appropriately, which resulted 
in uninterrupted production and supplies to its customers. 
Company continued to exercise strict control over its 
receivables and also by keeping moderation in inventory levels. 
Through better supplier credit management, it is monitoring 
its working capital cycle effectively & efficiently. 
3. Dealers’ Financing 
The Dealers’ Finance facilities provided to Channel Partners are 
proceeding well. Every year, more & more channel partners are 
joining the Channel Finance Scheme, in view of competitive 
rate of interest & unsecured facilities offered by the bank. 
Seasonal / peak business requirements are also taken care 
of by the Bank, by providing temporary incremental limits. 
Extended credit terms have also been provided to the Channel 
Partners in challenging time during lockdown due to Covid-19 
pandemic last year. 
4. CRISIL Rating
As per the latest review conducted in the last quarter, (a) 
the Rating for Company’s Short term bank facilities were 
reaffirmed at “CRISIL A1+” rating by CRISIL (which is the 
highest rating for the Short term instruments) and (b) Rating 
for Long Term Bank facilities were upgraded from “CRISIL AA 
Stable Outlook” to “CRISIL AA Positive”. The outlook revision 
as explained by CRISIL is due to-:
•	 the improvement in the business risk profile, driven by
healthy pick up in sales and operating margin, since the 
third quarter of fiscal 2021. 
•	 Healthy rural demand and better realizations, amidst
rising crude prices, have led to healthy sales growth. 
•	 Operating margin has improved driven by better
realisations, ability to pass on hike in raw material prices 
to customers and increased share of higher-margin valueadded products. 
•	 Financial risk profile is also robust, supported by strong
capital structure and debt protection metrics outlook”
5. Capital Expenditure
5.1. Considering optimistic business growth potential, the Company 
has incurred Capital Expenditure (capex) of R 314 crores, 
during the year under review. The entire capex has been 
funded through internal accruals only. The highlights of the 
capex incurred are as follows -:
(a) Putting Moulding shop to make pipe fittings at Kharagpur 
complex.
(b) Establishing capacity to manufacture PVC Pipe Systems/ 
CPVC Pipe System at Jadcherla.
(c) Adding new models of Injection moulded furniture, Crates 
& pallets in the Company’s range of furniture and Material 
Handling Products.
(d) Installing additional extrusion line to manufacture Cross 
Laminated Film at Get Muvala Unit at Halol (Gujarat).
(e) Increasing PVC Pipe capacity at Kanpur and DWC Pipe 
capacity & range at Kharagpur
(f) Increasing HDPE & CPVC pipe capacity at Kharagpur
(g) To add varieties of new moulds in plastic piping division 
of the Company.
(h) To expand capacities in Industrial Product Division at 
Chennai moulding unit.
(i) To purchase required land for new greenfield plastic 
product complex at Odisha and Tamilnadu.
5.2 The Company has plans to commit capex of about R 400 
Crores including carry forward commitments of R 198 Crs. at 
the beginning of the year. The committed / proposed capex 
is primarily for :-
(a) Putting new unit at Assam to manufacture PVC Pipes and 
Roto & Blow Moulded products.
(b) Putting up a plastic product complex near Cuttack in 
Odisha where required land has already been purchased 
and taken possession thereof
(c) Putting up a plastic product complex near Erode in 
Tamilnadu. The Company has already taken possession 
of about 33 acre land from SIPCOT.
(d) Establishing capacity to manufacture olefin Fittings/ PEX 
Piping System at Jadcherla.
(e) Expanding capacities of its bath fitting products at 
Puducherry
(f) Adding varieties of new injection moulded fitting products 
in its plastic Piping products
(g) To add new models of Injection moulded furniture, Crates 
& pallets in the Company’s range of furniture and Material 
Handling Products
(h) Adding several capacities of Water Tank moulds and 
additional Roto Moulding machines.
(i) To increase capacities of Industrial Component moulding 
at various location in view of increased business 
opportunities
(j) To add necessary equipments at its Proptective Packaging 
and performance packaging division
(k) To install Rooftop Solar energy generation plants at its 
various locations
(l) To install balancing equipment at various locations
The Company envisages cash accruals to remain strong in 
view of better operating margins, better realizations, increased 
share of value added products & increase in its market share 
across segments. The company expects to meet its Capex 
requirements and working capital through internal accruals 
in medium terms.
The net borrowing of R 216.42 Crores at the beginning of the 
year has become net cash surplus by end of June, 2020 and 
38 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-2021
further strengthened quarter on quarter and was over R 759 
crores at the end of the year 2020-21 and remained invested 
into various liquid fund schemes etc. 
The company’s persistent focus shall remain in, cost control 
and cost reduction, tight monitoring of working capital and 
better treasury Management. 
6. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The Company has adequate internal audit and control systems. 
Internal auditors comprising of professional firms of Chartered 
Accountants have been entrusted the job to conduct regular 
internal audits and risk based audits at all units/ locations and 
report to the management the lapses, if any. Both internal 
auditors and statutory auditors independently evaluate the 
adequacy of internal control system. Based on the audit 
observations and suggestions, follow up, remedial measures 
are being taken including review and increase in the scope of 
coverage, if necessary. The Audit Committee of Directors, in 
its periodical meetings, review the adequacy of internal control 
systems and procedures, interact with various internal auditors 
and suggest & guide for areas of improvements.
The Company has undertaken a detailed exercise to revisit 
its control systems in technical and other non financial 
areas to align them properly with Management Information 
Systems (MIS) to make MIS more efficient and result oriented. 
Information technology base created by the Company over 
the period is providing a very useful helping hand in the 
process. Needless to mention, that ensuring maintenance of 
proper accounting records, safeguarding assets against loss and 
misappropriation, compliance of applicable laws, rules and 
regulations and providing reasonable assurance against fraud 
and errors will continue to remain central point of the entire 
control systems.
7. HUMAN RESOURCES
The Company has been very proactive to support all it’s 
workforce at all the levels in best possible manner during 
the entire Covid-19 pandemic period. The Company has 
disbursed salaries and wages during entire lockdown period 
to its staff, associates and contract work force. The Company 
has provided healthcare facilities and medical reimbursements 
to the employees who were infected with Covid-19. It also 
supported financially by allowing disbursement of full salaries 
during the entire duration of medical treatment. Few of the 
casualties amongst the employees was a matter of great pain 
and concern. The Company has promised to take care of the 
children’s education apart from providing one time financial 
assistance to the family of deceased employees.
The Company has also developed its infrastructure and facilities 
by which many employees are able to work from home. The 
Company has also advised all its sales force to travel through 
safest mode and take all precautions for safe & comfortable 
journey. This has helped the Company to continue to provide 
efficient services to all its stakeholders during the whole year 
marred by pandemic Covid-19.
Human resource is considered as key to the future growth 
strategy of the Company and looks upon to focus its efforts 
to further align human resource policies, processes and 
initiatives to meet its business needs. In order to focus on 
keeping employees abreast of technological and technical 
developments, the Company provides opportunity for training 
and learning within the country and abroad. 
Industrial relations at all the units and locations are cordial. 
Cautionary Statement
Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis 
describing the Company’s objectives, expectations or 
predictions may be forward looking within the meaning of 
applicable securities, laws and regulations. Actual results 
may differ materially from those expressed in the statement. 
Important factors that would influence the Company’s 
operations include cost of raw materials, tax laws, interest and 
power cost and economic developments particularly in view 
of ongoing pandemic COVID 19 and such other factors within 
the country and the international economic and financial 
developments.


Management Discussion and Analysis
1. OVERVIEW
The year began on a gloomy note with the second wave of 
Covid which affected the economy in general and the rural 
economy in particular, in a very severe way. The first quarter 
of the year which normally remains most business friendly 
for the Company (considering its product profile) witnessed 
quite a weak demand for most of the product segments of 
the Company.
Thereafter, Polymer prices witnessed relentless upward 
march which continued up to middle of November 2021. 
Subsequently, prices fell quite steeply (especially in PVC 
Resin) which virtually destroyed the demand of Plastic Pipe 
Systems albeit temporarily.
Even in such extreme adverse circumstances, the Company 
managed to recover large quantum of its lost business and 
achieved substantially better business in remaining part of 
the year. (compared to preceding previous year) in most of 
the segments in which it operates.
Covid-19 pandemic was very effectively contained by the 
Central & State Governments with effective vaccination 
drive and local lockdowns, while largely enforcing Covid 
appropriate behavior. This has galvanised the economy on 
growth path. It was further supported by normal monsoon 
resulting in improved agricultural production.
Despite the hostile & adverse environment, Company 
maintained a positive outlook for its growth plans. It persisted 
with its large investment plan with full confidence that 
business will be quite promising in the year 2022-23 and 
beyond.
The expectations are proving to be realistic. This is further 
supported by softening of the upward trend of Plastic raw 
material prices. From the start of the year beginning April 
2022, the Polymer prices have started downward trend.
Company sold 4,11,521 tons product in the year 2019-20. 
Thereafter, in subsequent two years, the volumes continued 
downward trend reaching a low of 3,93,908 tons in the year 
2021-22. The Company is confident that in the current year 
(2022-23) Company will be able to achieve good business 
volume and growth over pre-covid level achieved in the 
year 2019-20.
Most of the business segments are now showing improved 
demand prospects. The Composite LPG Cylinder division 
which was formed in the year 2014 was languishing up to 
end of March 2021. However during the year under review, 
this division started utilizing its capacity effectively and has 
now firmed up its expansion plan to double the installed 
capacity.
Thus, the Company is now actively present in thermoset 
section of Plastics, which augurs well for the further growth 
plans in this section of business.
The Company continues with its investment plans vigorously 
which may exceed the Capex plan of 2021-22. The 
Company envisages good business growth opportunities in 
all its segments going forward as the impact of pandemic 
has ebbed and several initiatives are being taken by the 
Government to put the Country on higher growth path.
2. PRODUCT GROUPS
The product groups of the Company have been categorised 
as follows:
Group Products
Plastics 
Piping 
System
uPVC Pipes, Injection Moulded PVC fittings 
and handmade fittings, Polypropylene 
Random Co-polymer pipe system, HDPE 
Pipe Systems, CPVC Pipes Systems, 
Inspection Chambers, manholes, Toilets 
Bath fittings, Roto moulded Tanks and Fittings 
and Solvents, Industrial Piping System, DWC 
Pe Pipe System, Pex Pipe System and Fire 
Sprinkler System
Consumer 
products
Furniture 
Industrial 
Products
Industrial Components, Material handling 
System and Pallets - Roto moulded crates, 
pallets and garbage bins and Composite 
LPG Cylinders.
Packaging 
Products
Flexible packaging film products, Protective 
Packaging Products, Cross Laminated Film 
products.
PRODUCT GROUP WISE SHARE IN TURNOVER 
FOR THE LAST TWO YEARS (% of Value)
Plastics 
Piping 
Systems []
Industrial 
Products []
Packaging 
Products []
Consumer 
Products [] 2021-22 
 Plastics Piping 
System 66% Packaging 
Products 16%
Industrial 
Products 13% 
Consumer 
Products 5%
2021-22
Plastic Piping 
System 
[]
Industrial 
Products
[]
Packaging 
Products 
[]
Consumer 
Products []
2020-21 
 Plastics Piping 
System 65% Packaging 
Products 17%
Industrial 
Products 12% 
Consumer 
Products 6%
2020-21
The net turnover (including other income) of the Company 
for the year under review was R 7840.51Crores (including 
R 105.89 Crores by way of trading in other related products) 
as against R 6383.59 Crores (including R 125.23 Crores 
by way of trading in other related products) during the 
previous year.
The Company has sold 393908 tons of Plastic products as 
against 409109 tons of Plastic products in the corresponding 
period of previous year, reflecting a de-growth of 4% in 
product turnover by volume. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
34 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
The Company exported goods worth US $ 29.11 million as 
against US $ 18.35 million during the corresponding period 
of the previous year. Profit before interest, depreciation and 
exceptional items and taxes during the period under review 
have been at R 1309.89 Crores as against R 1312.74 Crores 
during the previous year.
3. COMPANY STRENGTH AND GROWTH DRIVERS
3.1 Manufacturing Sites
The Company is operating from 25 manufacturing sites 
across 12 States and Union Territories. The Company has 
taken up of Three Green Field Projects primarily for Plastics 
Piping System in the States of Assam, Odisha and Tamil 
Nadu. Same are likely to be in operation during first half of 
current year.
3.2 Distribution Network
The Company is committed to reach to all the Tehsil areas of 
the Country. The Company has been able to create Dealer 
network in hundreds of Tehsils during the year, where 
Company’s products are either not there or having very 
marginal reach. The Company’s active Channels Partners 
strength increased to 4053 Nos in March 2022.
Global markets have started opening up, enabling the 
Company to reach to the overseas customers. The Company 
has started participating in various national and international 
exhibitions, frequency of which is expected to further 
increase going forward.
The Company continues to open more Depots to service its 
customers in a cost efficient manner. The Company has total 
36 Depots and Fabrication facilities for its various product 
groups.
3.3 Growth Drivers
The Company’s spend on TV advertisement at regional and 
national level and in various sports events being telecast 
apart from use of diverse modes of media during the year 
has strengthened its Brand further. Participation in various 
national & international exhibitions has again started. 
The Company has conducted large nos. of plumber meets to 
educate them about new piping products, proper application 
techniques etc . The same has been well appreciated by the 
plumbing community and they have expressed their desire 
for more such events to be organised on regular basis. 
Knowledge centers opened by the Company are playing a 
pivotal role in providing knowledge about new products/
applications and able to create awareness among architects, 
contractors, farmers, plumbers and channel partners. 
Unfortunately counterfeit products are being introduced 
by some unscrupulous players in a large way in the Pipe 
Segment, Cross Laminated film and Furniture product 
segments. The Company is quite active in seeking legal 
remedy to protect the consumers from getting cheated. 
The Company has been largely successful in containing this 
menace which however appears to be a recurring problem 
area.
3.4 Renewable Energy - a way forward
The Company is committed and has taken very focused steps 
to ensure that it uses more and more green and renewal 
energy and becomes more environmental friendly.
Roof top solar capacity of the Company has almost 
doubled from 8.61 Mwp FY(20-21) to 17.09 Mwp during 
the year FY(21-22) i.e. increase of 8.480 Mwp successfully 
commissioned at various units. Further commissioning of 
6.22 Mwp Roof Top Solar Power is in progress at various 
units & shall become operational in April/ May 2022. 
Company also signed PPA of 3.5 Mwp Group Captive Solar 
Power for its units in U.P. which is likely to be operational 
by September, 2022.
Company is also using and exploring ways to increase uses of 
wind energy. During the year 102.84 Lakh wind units were 
consumed by different units across India which constitutes 
3.85% of Company’s total energy consumption. Further, 
Company also signed PPA of 70 Lakh Hybrid Units PA for 
its two units located at Halol in Gujarat. Company plans to 
further invest about R 40 Crs. during the year for Solar energy 
installations and would also increase usage of renewable 
energy sources through open access/Group Captive or apex 
mode.
During the year Company could achieve usage of about 
12% of its total energy consumption through renewable 
energy sources and it aims to achieve 20% target by end of 
financial year 2022-23.
The Company aspires to be carbon neutral at the earliest 
feasible and would pursue this vision in a focussed manner 
by taking various effective steps and allocating more 
resources.
4. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
4.1 PLASTICS PIPING SYSTEMS
The Company continues its objective to aggressively grow 
Plastic Pipe System business where the Company is a leader 
in the segment as it has the largest portfolio of products, 
which is being continuously expanded to offer more systems 
as required by the market it caters to.
During the year under review the Company registered an 
overall revenue growth of about 24.6% in Plastic Piping 
System made from different plastic materials. Overall the 
Company sold 274295 Tons of Pipe System compared to 
294357 Tons in the preceding year.
In the year under review the spread of corona pandemic 
was more pronounced in rural areas and consequently the 
AGRI business was affected adversely especially during the 
months of April’21 and May’21. Since the AGRI business 
is of large volumes and seasonal, the loss could not be 
recouped during the off-season period, when there is low 
demand for this application. This has led to de-growth in 
volumes for the full year.
PVC is the predominant raw material in the Company’s 
Plastic Pipe business. During the year 21-22 the prices of 
PVC were literally in roller coaster mode. The prices of PVC 
were in upward trend from 16th March 2021 till middle of 
May 2021. Overall prices of PVC went up by R 16/- per kg 
during that period. Thereafter from 1st June ’21 prices of PVC 
started decreasing till up to July’ 2021 and the fall was close 
to R 10/- per kg. Thereafter from 1st August’21 onwards the 
prices of PVC kept increasing till middle of November’21. 
Overall prices of PVC went up by R 42/- per kg during that 
period. Thereafter again the prices of PVC started falling and 
the prices decreased by approx. R 29/- per kg up to beginning 
February’22. This has affected the market sentiment and led 
to de-growth by around 6.9% in volume for the year. 
The Government at the Centre and States have put 
the priority focus on Jal Jeevan Mission (To provide tap 
connections to every household), Pradhan Mantri Awas 
Yojana (Housing for all), AMRUT, Swatch Bharat Abhiyan, 
Sanitation and affordable houses to all and development of 
100 smart cities on all India basis. NITI Aayog has declared 
following as growth drivers across the country:
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 35
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
•	 Government infrastructure spending
•	 Increasing construction
•	 Increasing Industrial production
•	 Rising demand from irrigation sector
•	 Replacement of aging Pipes
•	 Providing affordable house to all
•	 Heavy investment by Government in irrigation, housing
and sanitization 
Almost all the above growth initiatives will give a boost to 
the business of Plastic Piping System Division.
Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA) has transformed the way 
housing sector business is conducted in the Country. Many 
prominent Business Houses have announced ambitious 
plans in this sector to grow geometrically with launch 
of their projects at multiple locations. For affordable 
housing segment the Company has introduced customer 
friendly drainage system under the different brand name 
“Streamline” which meets all functional requirements of 
the affordable Housing sector. The growth tempo has now 
started and the Company expects good demand coming 
from the segment on a sustainable basis.
The Company incurred a Capex of R 132.26 crores in 
the year under review in its various plants to build higher 
capacities and increased range. Majority of them have been 
put to use.
The Company with objective of making its footprint for 
manufacturing in South Zone, for Plastic Piping Division, 
has commenced the manufacturing at Jadcherla, DistrictMahaboobnagar at Telangana in a plot area of 50 acres. 
The production of PVC Pipes, cPVC Pipes, Water & Septic 
Tanks at this location has started. The Company is planning 
to start one more plant at South zone at Perundurai, Tamil 
Nadu.
The plant at Kharagpur is now fully operational. The 
increased capacity of HDPE and DWC Pipes at Kharagpur 
plant is in place. Further capacity expansion of Moulded 
Fittings is also complete. Plant is operating at its optimum 
capacity now.
The Company now has three plants producing HDPE Pipes 
in West, East and North Zones to cater to these markets 
effectively. The Company has planned to start the production 
of HDPE Pipes at three more new locations and all are 
expected to be in place during FY 22-23.
The Company now manufactures Roto Moulded Products 
at all four geographies of the country viz., North, South, 
East and West to service these markets cost effectively. The 
Company plans to add manufacturing of Water Tanks at 
three more locations during FY 22-23. The Company has put 
in place plans to substantially increase the business of Water 
Tanks through different market strategy of servicing directly 
to retailers from the respective factories at many places. The 
Company also launched Premium range of Water Tanks 
branded as “Weather Shield” with added features such as 
superior thermal insulation etc., from three locations with 
good market response. To cater to economy range of Water 
Tanks market the Company plans to start the manufacturing 
of Blow Moulded Water Tanks at two of its locations viz. 
Assam and West Bengal.
Overall, by September this year, the Company will be 
producing Tanks at 8 different locations which will enable 
it to service customers more economically.
The production of Double Wall Corrugated HDPE Pipes 
continues from Gadegaon and Kharagpur plants with 
necessary BIS Certification. The Company has also launched 
suitable DWC Pipe for Cable Ducting application to cater 
to this application. The Company is in process to educate 
various departments about the benefits of putting in place 
a good quality DWC Pipes with latest technology and using 
virgin certified raw materials in terms of performance and 
longer life.
The Company introduced 66 nos. of variety of Injection 
Moulded Pipe fittings during 2021-22. They all have been 
well received in the market. The Company has plans of 
introducing further new items during the year as per system 
requirement. The total product portfolio in Plastic Pipe 
System has reached 9108 nos., thus adding 338 products to 
the range of various Plastic Piping System, over the preceding 
year.
The Company manufactures the cPVC Pipes at four of its 
manufacturing locations and cPVC Fittings at two of its 
manufacturing locations. The production of cPVC pipes 
at Jadcherla plant is fully functional with necessary BIS 
certification. For some time The Company had raw material 
availability problem from its only source viz. Kaneka, Japan 
on account of one of its plants having been shut down 
(owing to snow storm in USA) in February 2021. That plant 
of Kaneka has now restarted production. The Company 
is assured of larger volume of CPVC supply in the current 
year from them compared to previous year. The Company 
has also independently tied up with other sources to get 
increased volume of CPVC resins in the current year. The 
cPVC system sales during the year under review grew by 
36.7% in value over preceding year.
The Company plans to start three new manufacturing units 
at new locations viz. Guwahati (Assam), Cuttack (Odisha) 
and Perundurai (Tamil Nadu) for Plastic Pipes, Hoses, Water 
Tanks, Septic Tanks etc. At Guwahati the machine installation 
is complete and it should start commercial production 
shortly. At Cuttack the Company has already acquired 29 
acres of land and is in the process of further acquiring 4-5 
acres of land which are plots in between and after taking 
these plots the land will become contiguous. The Company 
has already awarded the Civil and PEB contracts for same 
and construction is in full swing. The Company plans to start 
the production at Cuttack unit by August’22. At Perundurai 
(Tamilnadu) the Company has taken 32 acres of land 
from SIPCOT at their fully developed Industrial Site. The 
construction work is in full swing. For PVC Pipe production, 
at that plant the Company is shifting required machines 
from Gadegaon plant. However, for other products the new 
machines are being ordered. The commercial production 
there is likely to start by August’22.
The Company has started manufacturing variety of 
Specialized Valves such as Butterfly Valves, Swing Check 
Valves, Ball type non-return Valve etc.. These Valves have 
been designed for different applications like Industrial, 
Agriculture and Plumbing segments. They are made of 
specialized materials to ensure reliability & longer life and 
also to meet best of global standards. The Company has 
received positive response from the market. The Company 
intends to increase the range of Valves for Industrial usage 
in the current year.
The AQUAKRAFT Bath Fittings (including newly launched 
Chrome Plated range) introduced by the Company is now 
well established. There were 26 new items introduced 
during the year. The portfolio in Bath Fittings has reached to 
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
36 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
150 items. The Company plans to further complement the 
range during 2022-23 by introducing many new products in 
Bath fittings including some of the premium products. The 
enhanced manufacturing facility at the newly built unit to 
make Bath Fittings at Pondicherry is already in place. The 
Bath Fittings sales during the year under review grew by 30% 
over corresponding previous year.
The Company now has 31 Product Systems in the division 
and plans to add 4 new systems in the division viz. Electrical 
Conduit system, Hoses (Garden and Pressure), PEX Pipe 
system and Olefins Moulded Fittings (Compression and 
Electro fusion) during the current year.
The Company’s business to Export market during the year 
had a growth of 84.57% in US $ terms. The Company is 
continuously trying to increase its export business of Piping 
Systems in several markets.
The Division’s Value-Added Products sale was 41.89% 
compared to 39.27% in the previous year. The Company 
is now servicing through 1250 Channel partners. The 
Company continues to expand its reach by appointing 
new Distributors in areas where there is a gap in servicing. 
The Company has also started directly servicing retailers in 
selected markets for certain specific products of this division.
The Company has set up multiple Knowledge Centres 
across the country to train Plumbers and interact with 
Farmers, Architects and Plumbing consultants in respective 
zones. Currently, they are functioning at Gadegaon, Kochi, 
Malanpur and Kharagpur. Company expects to start such 
centres at more locations in near future at the new upcoming 
units. 
With the help of specialists, the Company has embarked 
upon a new activity with nomenclature as “Plumbing 
Workshop” which is a full day session with Plumbers. 
Here the sharing is of latest Plumbing techniques along 
with applications of new products introduced by the 
Company in the recent past in the range. The markets have 
well appreciated it and there is pressure on Company to 
increase the Plumbing Workshop numbers substantially. The 
Company could organize only 67 Plumbing workshops in 
the year 2021-22 owing to pandemic related restrictions. 
Company plans to organize 300 Plumbing Workshops 
during the year 2022-23. There are now more than 93,000 
Plumbers associated with the Company.
The Company extended welfare measures to its influencers 
and continue to take appropriate measures for their well 
being.
The Company has started monitoring data of retailers who 
buy regularly through its distribution channels. An action 
plan to increase the number of such retailers on all India 
basis has been worked out and is being tracked. There are 
now more than 41,000 retailers connected with Piping 
System Business on a regular basis.
FlameGuard CPVC pipe system made by the Company is 
considered as a safe material for the use in fire sprinkler 
system in many parts of the country. 
Unlike plumbing system, a fire sprinkler system requires 
multiple approvals. Much awaited revision in Indian 
standard IS-15105 has been completed and revised standard 
has been published towards the end of August ’21. Now 
CPVC has been considered as an alternate material to metal 
system for use in Automatic sprinkler fire extinguishing 
system. As system is considered in Indian standard more 
customers started considering this system as an alternate 
material to traditional metal system.
Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat have already started 
the use of CPVC Fire Sprinkler system.
The cost of the GI pipes for fire sprinkler has shown steep 
increase and the price gap between metal and CPVC 
system has been reduced considerably. The system has 
limited success in a part of the country where MS pipe is 
still considered as material for installation in sprinkler system 
instead of GI pipe. The cost of the MS pipe is approximately 
20-25% less compared to GI pipe system. 
In addition to this Company has started use of own in-house 
compound. As a result, the cost of the system has been 
reduced drastically. At present the Company is dependent 
on the import of metal insert fittings and the solvent 
cement. The Company is exploring with its collaborator for 
manufacturing of solvent cement also locally. 
Product installation training for this system is a mandatory 
requirement before the actual installation starts to avoid 
hiccups. The Company provides the technical support by 
providing the Bill of Quantities (BOQ) from the sprinkler 
layout of the project. The Company also offers full support 
to the installer including the value engineering to reduce the 
cost without compromising the quality of the installation. 
The Company expects substantial business growth in this 
segment in coming years.
The Company got Brand Health Survey done for Supreme 
Piping System. Participants in the survey were consumers, 
retailers and influencers on all India basis. The necessary 
actions are being planned to improve the Brand Health in 
states based on findings of this survey.
To support environment concerns, Company is gearing up 
to meet with National Green Tribunal directive of phasing 
out Lead stabilizers from manufacturing of different types 
of uPVC Pipes. The Company has already started using lead 
free stabilisers in many piping systems. 
4.2 CONSUMER PRODUCTS
4.2.1FURNITURE
The year 2021-22 was a tough year for furniture business 
owing to steep increase in Polymer prices. The prices of 
PP increased by almost 20% from October 2021 onwards, 
adversely affecting the demand of furniture in the second 
half. The Company registered value growth of 36% in the 
first half of 21-22 but witnessed a flat second half. For the 
full year, the Company registered growth of 11% in value 
terms but its volumes declined by 6%.
Furniture demand remained adversely affected due to 
service segments not opening up such as Marriage Places, 
Restaurants, Decorators, Schools & Colleges etc. Even 
other segments have seen low demand as they have been 
cautious in their new purchases. Similar trend was seen 
in household purchases as customers are holding back on 
their discretionary spend. The effect of increase in prices 
of PP had a cascading impact on consumer purchases of 
the furniture as the differential in pricing with unbranded 
reprocessed furniture became large. However, the Company 
sees a bright future for the current year as the polymer prices 
have started declining since beginning of the year. With all 
sections of economy opening up paving the way for a growth 
in demand of The Company’s furniture products. 
The Company continues to remain a market leader in 
the Premium Range of Plastic Furniture. The Company’s 
premium furniture business grew by 19% in value terms 
during the year and its share of total sales grew from 47% 
to 50% during the year. Due to its multiple manufacturing 
units located across the country e.g. in North (Punjab), 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 37
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
South (Puducherry & Telangana), East (West Bengal), West 
(Maharashtra) & North East (Assam), the Company has an 
excellent reach at Pan India level and is committed to serve 
its customers efficiently. 
The Company is a pioneer in upgrading the perception of 
plastic furniture by introducing highly innovative premium 
range. The Company is now focusing on creating large retail 
showrooms for displaying plastic furniture in an attractive 
manner. This will help the consumers to select the furniture 
of their choice from a vast range of display and offer them a 
pleasant experience of buying the premium furniture. The 
Company opened 22 such showrooms in Eastern India in 
21-22 and plans to have total 100 such showrooms by close 
of 22-23. 
The Company manufactures furniture with all three different 
technologies i.e Injection Moulding, Blow Moulding & Roto 
Moulding. The Company has been manufacturing Injection 
Moulded Furniture for last 31 years and it contributes to 95% 
of its total furniture sales. The Company started manufacture 
of Roto Moulded Furniture in Feb 2020 but these products 
could not be marketed properly in 21-22 owing to schools 
remaining closed all through the year. With schools now 
opening up, the Company expects business to establish 
from the Roto Moulded range in current financial year.
During the year, the Company’s sales of Blow Moulded 
Tables remained flat over last year owing to various business 
segments such as decorators, schools remaining almost 
closed. However, the Company has initiated marketing 
efforts for promoting its sale and expects good growth in 22-
23 from this segment. The Company is already supplying 21 
models of Blow Moulded Tables and will soon be introducing 
4 more models in the first quarter.
The Company introduced 12 New models during the 
year of various furniture items comprising of chairs, tables, 
cupboards & baby furniture. Some of the new models 
have been well received and are expected to acieve good 
growth in the coming year. With economy opening up, the 
Company plans to launch variety of new models during 
22-23 which will help in overall growth in the coming year. 
The Company is committed to make available its furniture 
across India and is working towards increasing its retail 
penetration at each Tehsil/ Taluka level. The Company 
currently has 14522 retailers selling its furniture who are 
being serviced through Company’s network of 1306 channel 
partners. The Company plans to add 1900 retail outlets 
during the year. The Company has identified some of its 
weak markets and has planned to intensify the marketing 
activity in those markets for improving its retail penetration 
and increasing the number of channel partners in those 
markets.
The Company’s furniture range is sold on various e 
commerce portals through a few dedicated channel partners 
as well as various resellers. The Company has initiated the 
process of allowing authorized resellers to actively promote 
the sales through transparency program of Amazon for 
proper servicing of customers, build ratings for Company 
products and increase the overall online sales. The Company 
has launched its own portal for showcasing to its consumers 
its wide range of premium products and make it available 
for them from the comforts of their home. The Company 
is focused on increasing its online presence and product 
offerings and sees this as a future growth driver. 
During the year under review Company’s export business 
declined over preceding year owing to steep increase in sea 
freights. The Company has built close relationship with some 
of the leading major retail chains but due to extremely high 
sea freights all orders are on hold. The Company expects 
business to flow as soon as the sea freights are normalised. 
The Company is focusing on markets where the sea freight 
increase impact is relatively less and hopes to see a growth 
in the export sales this year. 
4.3 INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
4.3.1INDUSTRIAL COMPONENTS
The year 21-22 started on a bullish note backed by excellent 
Q4 of FY 20-21 in terms of buoyant economy and demand 
up stick in both Automotive and Consumer Durables 
although some signs were visible of Covid19 second wave. 
However, contrary to initial indication of mild variant, it 
actually turned out to be highly devastating wave. Obviously, 
various state Govts instituted significant Curbs affecting 
sentiments and thereby market demand. Although, factories 
were running, capacity utilization remained suboptimal 
through May – July period due to low off take from 
customers. Although, demand started looking up thereafter, 
sales of first quarter was affected irretrievably. The year was 
marked by huge supply chain issues at all our customers 
due to shortage of imported material because of shipping 
and logistics issues, non-availability of containers, shortage 
of semi-conductors etc. This led to typical scenario of high 
demand but no supply. Supply chain was also affected by 
rising commodity and fuel prices during the year. 
There was marked shift in Customer Preferences in the 
market in Washer segment, from Semi-Automatic to Fully 
Automatic Machines. This shift adversely affected the 
Company as it has considerable presence in Semi-Automatic 
Washer parts supply to OEs. Company is working very closely 
with the OEs for rationalization of Product –Mix Share to 
address this shift going forward.
In spite of such adversity, The Company’s customers were 
working aggressively to minimize effect of various shortages 
and managed to clock reasonable growth. In effect, the 
Division achieved decent revenue growth of 24% year on 
year.
Initiatives taken by the Company during lean period 
of last year to carry out all round improvements in the 
area of Productivity, Quality, Cost Reduction and People 
development were continued through this year also. 
Education of team members on World Class Manufacturing 
Practices, Lean Manufacturing, Training on identified Skill 
Gaps, Soft Skills etc by series of Virtual as well as Physical 
Learning Programs, both by the Internal and External 
Faculties were accelerated. Team members from both 
Staff and Associate category from various plants of the 
Division were involved in this exercise during this period. 
The Cost Management Project, code named “Rainbow 
Project” for focused cost reduction, launched last year is 
now matured with bringing in culture to look for avenues 
for cost saving projects and work on it. Strategy was made 
and its implementation started to develop new businesses 
to improve Capacity Utilization of certain underutilized 
Machines and Equipments. All these actions started yielding 
results in getting new business from the Company’s existing 
customers as well as new customers.
Looking at positive demand scenario in various sectors 
of Appliances like Washing Machines, Air Conditioners, 
Coolers and Refrigerators, segments where The Company 
has good presence, The Company invested in Capacity 
Expansion at various locations. This has started yielding 
results and will help the division going forward. Demand 
recovery in Auto sector also helped the Division for revenue 
growth with significant demand up stick in the Segments 
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
38 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
of the Company’s presence like Passenger Vehicles, and 
Commercial Vehicles although demand remained subdued 
in Two Wheelers. 
We expect semiconductors to be still in shortage for at 
least 6-8 months before it gets eased. This coupled with 
the uncertainties on Geo-Political Front will keep volatility 
in demand pattern for The Company’s customers and in 
effect to the Company although we expect it to be a short 
term phenomenon. However, The Company feels that 
Business scenario remains bullish in medium and long term 
with business friendly policies by the Govt., particularly 
PLI Scheme launched both in Automotive and Consumer 
Appliances sectors. The Company has planned need based 
Capacity Augmentation to handle the projected increased 
demand going forward. The new machines being planned 
are with the latest Technology, Energy efficient, and 
Robust Design for Excellent Quality and Repeatability. The 
Company is also working on cost efficient Automation.
The Company continues to enjoy Excellent Overall Rating by 
its Customers as it either meets or exceeds their expectations. 
The Company is considered as one of the most reliable 
suppliers in its area of expertise by the customers. This has 
helped the Division to get extra business from its customers 
whenever other suppliers failed to supply. Division is 
continuously striving to excel in all Operational Parameters 
as its culture. It helps the Company to remain cost efficient 
in this fiercely competitive supply chain to OEM Customers.
4.3.2MATERIAL HANDLING PRODUCTS
The year under review began with uncertainty and ambiguity. 
In most of the Indian states panic and gloom was prevalent 
due to incessant increase in COVID cases and subsequent 
lock downs. The industrial business activity was also affected 
with sentiments down and low at the beginning, but with 
rapid Govt. actions and wide vaccination, situation started 
improving in majority of sectors before close of the first 
quarter. The Year also witnessed highly fluctuating Polymer 
prices having direct impact on business of the Division. 
Even in the atmosphere of subdued activities in the first half 
of the year (which was more pronounced in Automobile, 
Engineering, Textiles and White goods), Company’s 
Materials Handling Products Division stood its ground firmly 
and registered impressive Growth both in terms of Volume 
and Revenue.
Notwithstanding the adverse effects of closures and 
restrictions owing to pandemic, MHD’s industrial crates 
range grew 32% in revenue and 15% in volume terms. These 
industrial crates primarily cater to Industries Like automobile, 
Engineering, white goods and E-commerce.
With very positive vibes visible in Automobile & engineering 
spaces, with major Auto OEM’s marching ahead with 
expansion in Capacities for Electric Vehicles, Many 
companies are also encouraged by Union Govt. incentives, 
new activities and new launches. These Industries are in 
fact drivers of demand for MHD’s Industrial Crates. These 
new launches will also give an impetus to the Company’s 
consistent sales efforts for growth and consolidation.
Your Company is constantly improving and optimising the 
existing range of Products and poised for introduction of 
newer models for industrial Electric Vehicle space during 
the current year.
The Company’s constant focus to enhance customer 
reach, service and educating the targeted audiences for 
both injection and roto pallets have given positive results, 
which has also helped surge in Exports during the year 
under review. Demand for one time use export pallets 
has increased and The Company has registered impressive 
growth both in Injection moulded regular repeated use 
pallets as well as one time use export pallets. 
The Company is consistently engaging with its diverse 
industrial customers to gauge and understand their industry 
and application specific needs of Pallets and developing new 
models both for one time and repeated use . New models 
for advanced Storage systems are about to be launched in 
the first quarter itself. If specifics fit into place, the Company 
shall be exploring the launch of a few more models in the 
coming year.
Roto Pallets which are regular in demand especially by 
Pharma and Foods industry besides the custom made models 
which are required for specific needs, have posted excellent 
results and grown by 50% in revenue and over 27% in 
volume terms. The Company is expanding the roto moulding 
Pallets and other products infrastructure at its Jadcherla 
(Telangana) Unit to cater to the demand of customers 
based at southern states. This will start operating by April 
this year. The division will continue introducing new Roto 
Pallets models at Gadegaon, Kharagpur and Jadcherla units 
to meet specific requirements of the Company’s customers.
The dairy segment in the Country is growing at a steady 
pace every year. Though the Company caters to some select 
quality conscious customers, its growth in this segment is 
a reflection of Industry growth as the Company has grown 
around 90% in value terms and around 60% in volume 
terms. The Company is confident that momentum of growth 
will continue in coming years as the Company expands its 
business in South and Western states.
In space of E-commerce and retail. which is constantly 
consolidating its presence in the country, your Company is 
slowly and steadily becoming a favourite of top E-commerce 
and Retail players. Recently introduced crate models suiting 
E- commerce and retails operations have all been successful 
registering growth of over 50% in volume terms 
In last two years, your Company has observed a marked shift 
in demand pattern for Dustbins. The earlier, roto dustbins 
models were being replaced by highly cost effective Injection 
moulded dustbins. The Division, recognising this shift, 
introduced five new injection dustbin models last year and 
has been able to double up the sales in volume terms. 
The Company has ambitious plans to at least triple the 
sales of injection dustbins from the present volumes more 
so after observing the heightened activities in many states 
in the country, for Swachh Bharat Mission, which could not 
be actively promoted for last two years owing to Pandemic.
The soft drink and Beverages segment also suffered a pause 
of almost two years. This year however it has started gearing 
up. While keeping our relationship with major players intact, 
The Company has shown impressive results in bottle crates 
range as well. The Company expects to double the sales 
volume during the current year in this segment.
There are a few pain areas too. In fisheries crates market, 
the Company did not grow and lost some volume. Due to 
two successive hurricanes in Coastal areas there has been 
serious disruption in Fisheries sector and overall market 
for crates shrunk last year. The Company’s fisheries jumbo 
crate models are highly appreciated for their unmatched 
quality, service and the Company is confident to achieve 
encouraging numbers & growth in this segment during the 
current year. 
In F&V crates market where the Company continues to 
serve only select quality conscious customers and mostly 
refrain from selling to mass markets which are a buzzed 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 39
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
with substandard quality. During the year under review the 
Company did not grow in this market but managed to keep 
its customer base intact. Company is hopeful of renewed 
growth in this segment during the current year.
The Company is highly focussed to constantly improve its 
product quality and the level of timely delivery of products 
to its customers. The division has been able to add many 
new customers all over the country and would strive to 
continue enlarge it”s customer base.
To improve the Company’s market reach, the Company is 
regularly strengthening its sales force and adding channel 
network partners to cover unrepresented areas. The 
Company is vigilant to enhance the capacities to meet the 
demand and introduce new models to augment the growth 
momentum of the division.
4.3.3.COMPOSITE LPG CYLINDER
Persistent efforts by the Company has yielded positive 
results for this division. Division has recovered the market 
and a great boost is received by steady repeat orders from 
its existing customers overseas. 
All technical issues of the past have been satisfactorily resolved 
and division has not received any customer complaint during 
the year under review. There is continuous flow of enquiries 
from new overseas customers. Most heartening event for the 
division was the successful introduction of Composite LPG 
cylinders in the domestic market.
The Company has successfully participated and received 
Letter of Intent (LOI) for supply of 7,35,186 Nos of 10 Kg. 
capacity Composite LPG Cylinders valuing about R 170 
Crores from Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL), one of 
the leading government oil marketing Company. Supplies 
have commenced from March, 2022 and bulk of the order 
quantity shall be delivered in the current year.
The volume of business is large which surpasses the existing 
installed capacity. The Company has taken effective steps to 
install a new plant on a war footing in the same premises to 
double the capacity and the same is likely be operational by 
November, 2022, which will enable the Company to make 
around 1 Million Nos per year.
The Company is balancing orders from existing and new 
customers to provide excellent quality Composite LPG 
cylinders in international and domestic markets and 
prospects for the division look promising.
4.4. PACKAGING PRODUCTS
4.4.1 Packaging films
Performance Films Division (PFD) 
The Performance Films Division has recorded 22% growth 
in Volume and about 49% growth in Value. 
The Total sale achieved was 9514 MT as against 7801 MT 
in the corresponding previous year. 
During Covid period, there was a requirement of more 
hygienic product/ packaging and therefore automation 
was a logical choice where Packaging played a Major Role. 
Therefore, usage of Barrier Packaging was essential in Edible 
Oil & Dairy industry and had a growth of 11% in Volume. 
Bag/Pouch sales increased by 40% in volume with support 
from increased Bag/Pouch making capacity. 
Exports have shown positive growth of 2806 tons as against 
1343 tons in the preceding year. Positive response from 
Middle East, Africa and other European countries made 
exports grow by 111% in volume. Other markets are now 
being explored in Europe and USA. 
The Division remains optimistic for growth in the current 
year. The customer base will grow due to Company’s quality 
commitment and excellent service. 
The Company expects to achieve volume and value growth 
in this business during the current year due to increase in 
its customer base in India and abroad. This has been made 
possible due to increase in the production capacity with 
improved product mix. 
4.4.2Protective Packaging Division
Overall
Turnover of the division was about 30%higher in value 
terms & 7% higher in volume terms in FY2021-22 over 
previous year in spite of Covid impact in Q1, this has been 
achieved due to good demand and proper planning from 
sales & manufacturing. Due to high volatility of raw material 
prices, the division was unable to pass on the burden of 
increased raw material prices fully to it’s customers impacting 
Operating Profit Margins of the division.
PROTEC, CIVIL & INSULATION Business
Division continues to focus on various new products, 
new applications and customised solutions. Increasing its 
distribution reach and adding new customers to its portfolio 
and reviving business with old customers remain priority. The 
same has resulted in decent growth in the business both in 
value as well as volume terms.
Consistent & growing demand for XLPE was witnessed in 
both domestic and exports. Expansion work has already 
started at Hosur and the division is also planning an 
expansion at Malanpur in the current fiscal year.
Consumer Products | Retail Business Vertical
Consumer Product business of the division has achieved 
growth of 25% in value terms in FY2021-22 as against 
FY2020-21. The vertical has added few new Distributors and 
now its total Distributors strength is 205. In Retail segment 
with continuous new enrolment of retailers its total Retailers 
strength stands at 5508. 
The division has started business with CSD in Sept 2021. 
Division is looking forward to a good business in CSD 
Business. 
Exports
The Company’s Exports division has achieved an export sale 
of USD 3.759 Million. The division is in process of reaching 
out to more markets and its export team is working on the 
same. Buyers have reduced their dependency on China and 
exploring opportunities with India . Division has started the 
DCDL certification process for Dubai – which is mandatory 
for getting registered its HVAC products for major projects. 
During the year under review Company has added several 
new customers in Middle East. 
NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT | INNOVATION | 
TECHNOLOGY
New Product Development: 
The Company is committed to improve its efficiency. For 
XLPE the Company has achieved better product quality and 
cost optimization. By doing so there has been improvement 
in the yield ratio.
The Company developed range of new products for 
Decathlon for their India market Retail Sales. For their 
International markets Decathlon have approved a few SKUs. 
The Company is working with Decathlon to develop various 
products based on their requirements. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
40 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
The Company has developed Cricket bats & Balls duly 
approved for quality by ISI & BIS. Currently company is 
supplying these items to Decathlon. 
To stay dominant and innovative in foam market, the 
Division has added several new products for generating new 
business and adding more customers. 
Modified design of Yoga mat embossing machine has been 
installed at Hosur, due to which productivity has increased 
considerably and it has also reduced thickness of the loss 
significantly. 
Technology
Continuous auto-punching machine along with online kiss 
cutting facility design developed in-house and installed at 
Urse Unit II which has benefitted in Manpower reduction 
and wastage reduction. 
Density range in Litecell section has also been increased 
which has helped to offer new range of products in markets 
such as Yoga Brick and Cricket Ball.
Development team has worked on XLPE product formulation 
and laminates to develop a new grade of XLPE, which has 
passed the required criteria of ASTM standard E-84 Class 
A rating with FSI and SDI Value 25/50, which is a main 
requirement to start Export business of Insulation material 
in UAE.
New Initiatives
Expansion 
The Company has gone ahead with XLPE and Capcell 
capacity expansion in this fiscal year, hardware orders are 
placed and Commercial production will start from Aug 2022 
onwards at Hosur.
To capture the roll joining business opportunity in a profitable 
manner, The Company has developed roll joining in eco 
– grade by using recycle material. The product has been 
approved and commercial production started. Customers 
are satisfied with the products. 
The division is working strongly by using alternate energy 
source like solar & wind. Significant savings of power cost 
has been achieved at Hosur unit & Malanpur. Installation is 
in process at Urse Plant. 
The Company has started work on express feeder for 
uninterrupted electricity supply to Urse plant. This will help 
in reduction of wastage and increase in productivity.
Expansion of several high value added products has been 
undertaken which will be completed by 1st half of this FY. 
4.4.3CROSS LAMINATED FILM
The Business of Cross Laminated Film & Products suffered 
a de-growth of 18.36% in volume terms during the year 
under review.
The second wave of Pandemic & the resultant localized 
lockdowns adversely affected the demand supply chain 
during the first quarter. The business of XF division was 
impacted the most due to one of its product tarpaulin being 
seasonal in nature with peak season between April to June. 
The sales were down by 23.76% in volume terms in first 
quarter compared to the same quarter in the preceding 
previous year.
The current year (FY22-23) looks promising with pandemic 
in control & normalcy being restored. SKYMET has also 
predicted normal rainfall in the year 2022 & ruled out 
occurrence of El Nino. Good monsoon season is expected 
to accelerate growth in agricultural output. The Company’s 
products are finding penetration in several agricultural 
segments. This augurs well for the future.
During the year the division has successfully carried out 
expansion of its capacity from 27000 TPA to 30000 TPA 
which is fully operational since March, 2022.
Though the overall sales have gone down, the sale of 
fabricated made-up products, other than Tarpaulins, has 
shown up a quantum jump. The Company has a state of the 
art fabrication facility to exclusively make these products at 
Halol. In the current year the thrust will be on promoting 
non – Tarpaulin products on a large scale. The Company has 
plans to appoint many new dealers / retailers to extend reach 
of these products to every nook & corner of the country. With 
extensive reach & introduction of new range of products in 
this category the Company aims to substantially increase the 
share of these value added products in the overall business.
The Company is planning to introduce new designs for its 
economy model of tarpaulins sold under the brand ‘Supreme 
Sathi’. It is expected to add value & differentiate it from 
competitor’s product.
Exports were down at the backdrop of steep increase in 
freight rates & Russia Ukraine crisis. The silver lining is that 
the Company has been able to make breakthrough in new 
markets during the year which could generate good export 
business in coming years. The thrust in the coming year 
will be on promoting non-Tarpaulin products, finding new 
applications, targeting new customers in existing markets 
& reaching new markets. To achieve these objectives, the 
Company is planning to take part in several exhibitions to 
show case its products. 
The Cross Plastic Film Project which was derailed due to 
pandemic is finally back on track. The drawings of various 
equipments are in the final stage of completion & orders 
for equipments may be placed very soon. The Company 
expects production of Cross Plastic to start in the first half 
of the next financial year. 
5. FINANCE
1. A brief on borrowing levels and finance cost is given 
below -:
1.1 Summary
Particulars Measure F.Y. 
2021-22
F.Y. 
2020-21
Net borrowing level at the 
end of the year
R in 
crores
Surplus 
of 
517.71 
Surplus 
of 
759.46 
Average Monthly Borrowings R in 
crores
 Surplus 
of 
308.52
 Surplus 
of 
247.94
Interest & finance charges R in 
crores
5.15 22.05
Average cost of borrowings 
at the end of the year
% p.a. N.A. N.A.
Financial cost as a % of 
Turnover
0.07% 0.35%
Interest Cover No. of 
Times
241 58
Total Net Debt : Equity Ratio N.A. N.A.
1.2 During the year under review the Company continued to 
remain debt free. The Company’s Capex and its working 
capital requirements have been largely funded through 
internal accruals. The excess cash accruals during the year 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 41
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
have been judiciously deployed from time to time in safe and 
secure Investment avenues with the objective of generating 
optimal returns while maintaining the assurance of liquidity 
at short notice.
2. Working Capital Borrowing
2.1 During the year under review, The Company continued 
its Multiple Banking Arrangement (MBA) with 9 banks, to 
meet its working capital requirements at optimum cost. 
The Company is thankful to its bankers for granting on 
fully unsecured basis, aggregate working capital facilities 
of R 1,445.90 crores which have been utilised moderately 
during the year. This shows the confidence reposed by all 
the Bankers on the Company and its management and their 
trust & commitment to provide unstinted support even 
during the challenging times. The Company’s established 
track record, robust operating margins, strong key financial 
ratios, absence of any long-term debt and adequate liquidity 
surplus, have enabled the Bankers to extend the favourable 
terms to the Company. 
2.2 The Company intends to use its surplus cash to continue 
to grow organically, while being open to explore the 
opportunities to grow inorganically through rightful 
acquisitions.
2.3 Increase in working capital utilisation
During the year under review the Company witnessed 
wide fluctuations in the Raw Material (Polymer) Prices. 
From initial trend of softening polymer prices, there was a 
steep increase in the Raw Material Prices by around 35% 
till mid-November. Then again prices fell by around 18% 
from mid-November till end January 2022 & again there 
was an increase of around 7% to 8% from February till end 
of March 2022. The same resulted in the large Inventories 
and increased book debts with the Company However, in 
view of the healthy cash flows, the Company could utilise 
its cash accruals to meet the increased working capital 
requirements as well as also plan its material procurement 
optimally, which resulted in uninterrupted production and 
supplies to its customers. The Company’s Working Capital 
Management involves well-organised processes which 
facilitate continuous monitoring & control over receivables, 
inventories & other parameters.
2.4 During the year under review, the Rupee also remained 
volatile against dollar. However due to its prudent and 
consistent hedging policy the Company has largely mitigated 
the risk arising out of Foreign Currency fluctuations and 
optimised its hedging costs.
3. Dealers’ Financing 
The Dealers’ Finance Scheme (DFS) provided by the bank 
to our Channel Partners are getting well recognised amongst 
them. During the year a few additional Channel partners 
have joined the Scheme, in view of competitive rate of 
interest & unsecured facilities offered by the bank. Seasonal 
/ peak business requirements are also being offered by the 
Bank, by providing temporary incremental limits. Extended 
credit terms were provided to the Channel Partners in 
challenging times during Covid-19 Pandemic. These facilities 
have become very helpful to The Company’s channel 
partners to meet their Normal/Additional working capital 
requirements at a competitive interest rates.
4. CRISIL Rating
As per the latest review conducted in the last quarter, (a) the 
Rating for the Company’s Short term bank facilities were 
reaffirmed at “CRISIL A1+” rating by CRISIL (which is the 
highest rating for the Short term instruments) and (b) Rating 
for Long Term Bank facilities were upgraded from “CRISIL 
AA Positive Outlook” to “CRISIL AA+ Stable”. The rating 
reflects the improvement in the business risk profile, driven 
by healthy pick-up in Sales and operating margin, increasing 
contribution of Value-added products backed by industry 
leading market position across segments and robust financial 
risk profile. 
5. Capital Expenditure
5.1. Considering optimistic business growth potential, the 
Company has incurred Capital Expenditure (capex) of 
R 259 crores, during the year under review. The entire 
capex has been incurred towards ramping up the capacities 
in plastic piping system, introduction of new products in 
various business segments, automation and replacing some 
old production equipment with new technology machines. 
Company has also incurred capex for increasing captive 
generation capacity of solar energy apart from balancing 
equipment at various locations. The entire capex has been 
funded through internal accruals only. 
5.2 The Company has plans to commit capex of about R 700 
Crores including carry forward commitments of R 280 Crs. at 
the beginning of the year. The committed / proposed capex 
is primarily for -:
a) To complete and put into operation the on- going 
project work at Assam to manufacture PVC Pipes and 
Roto & Blow Moulded products.
b) Putting up a plastic product complex near Cuttack in 
Odisha & near Erode in Tamilnadu where work is going 
on in full swing. 1st phase at both the sites is likely to 
go into production by August-September, 2022.
c) To double the capacity of Composite LPG cylinders to 1 
million pcs. Per annum at existing site at Halol, Gujarat.
d) Establishing additional capacity to manufacture olefin 
Fittings and to put PEX Piping System at Jadcherla.
e) Expanding capacities and product range of its bath 
fitting products at Puducherry.
f) Adding varieties of new injection moulded fitting 
products in its plastic Piping products.
g) To add new models of Injection moulded furniture, 
Crates & pallets in the Company’s range of furniture 
and Material Handling Products.
h) To increase capacities of Industrial Component 
moulding at various locations in view of increased 
business opportunities.
i) To add necessary equipment at its Protective Packaging 
and performance packaging division.
j) To install Rooftop Solar energy generation plants at its 
various locations.
k) To install balancing equipment at various locations.
6. Cash Surplus
The Company envisages healthy liquidity surplus in view 
of better realizations, increased share of value added 
products & increase in its market reach across segments. The 
Company shall continue to meet all its Capex and working 
capital requirements from internal accruals and to remain 
debt-free in medium terms.
The Company’s persistent focus shall remain in, cost control 
and cost reduction, tight monitoring of working capital and 
better treasury Management through deployment of funds 
prudently.
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-2022
42 THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED
6. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM & RISK MITIGATION
The Company has adequate internal audit and control 
systems. Internal auditors comprising of professional firms 
of Chartered Accountants have been entrusted with the 
job to conduct regular internal audits and risk based audits 
at all units/ locations and report to the management the 
lapses, if any. Both internal auditors and statutory auditors 
independently evaluate the adequacy of internal control 
system. Based on the audit observations and suggestions, 
follow up, remedial measures are being taken including 
review and increase in the scope of coverage, if necessary. 
The Audit Committee of Directors, in its periodical meetings, 
review the adequacy of internal control systems and 
procedures and suggest areas of improvements.
The Company has undertaken a detailed exercise to revisit its 
control systems in technical and other non-financial areas to 
align them properly with Management Information Systems 
(MIS) to make MIS more efficient and result oriented. 
Information technology base created by the Company over 
the period is providing a very useful helping hand in the 
process. Needless to mention, that ensuring maintenance of 
proper accounting records, safeguarding assets against loss 
and misappropriation, compliance of applicable laws, rules 
and regulations and providing reasonable assurance against 
fraud and errors will continue to remain central point of the 
entire control systems.
Cybersecurity is a concern for everyone today, from 
organisations to individuals. Organizations focus on physical 
and information security, due to regulatory requirements, the 
value of data in the current times and the risks of a security 
compromise. 
The Company has its well-defined policy to protect the 
infrastructure and secure its information. The policy clearly 
stands to safeguard all information in the interest of the 
Company. The Company has a robust security mechanism 
designed to defend and protect its infrastructure from any 
external threat or vulnerability.
All applications, critical end points and servers have their 
backup scheduled automatically at regular intervals on 
to The Company NAS Appliance. Company’s Network is 
secured with “Enterprise Edition Next Generation Firewall” 
installed at its primary/production datacentre as well as 
secondary/DR datacentres. 
The Company uses robust endpoint protection EDR system 
and User’s access to data or appliance or Infrastructure is 
controlled with Authentication and Authorization using 
active directory (AD), which is a secured and standard 
method. Central Database has high availability; Disaster 
recovery is in place for SAP infrastructure with regular DR 
drills.
Keeping in mind the ever expanding cyber threat landscape, 
Company has designed a robust, 100% uptime and real-time 
monitoring. This includes state of the art technology, a multivendor environment like Fortigate, Cisco, Citrix SD-WAN, 
HP-Aruba, and Nutanix.
Company has initiated projects on AI ML based SoC (Security 
operations Centre) while Network Operations Centre (NoC) 
is already functional. 
7. HUMAN RESOURCES
The Company has been very proactive to support its entire 
work force at all the levels in best possible manner especially 
during the Covid-19 pandemic period. The Company 
has disbursed salaries and wages during entire lockdown 
period to its staff, associates and contract workforce. The 
Company has provided healthcare facilities and medical 
reimbursements to the employees who were infected 
with Covid – 19. It also supported financially by allowing 
disbursement of full salaries during the entire duration 
of medical treatment. Few of the casualties amongst the 
employees was a matter of great pain and concern. The 
Company has promised to take care of the children’s 
education apart from providing one-time financial assistance 
to the family of deceased employees.
The Company has also developed its infrastructure and 
facilities by which many employees are able to work from 
home. The Company has also advised all its sales force to 
travel through safest mode and take all precautions for safe 
and comfortable journey. This has helped the Company to 
continue to provide efficient services to all its stakeholders 
during the entire period marred by pandemic Covid-19.
The focus of your Company is to ensure that young talent 
is nurtured and mentored consistently, that rewards and 
recognition are commensurate with performance and that 
employees have the opportunity to develop and grow.
Human resource is considered as key to the future growth 
strategy of the Company and looks upon to focus its efforts 
to further align human resource policies, processes and 
initiatives to meet its business needs. In order to focus on 
keeping employees abreast of technological and technical 
developments, the Company provides opportunity for 
training and learning within the country and abroad. Your 
Company strongly believes in fostering a culture of trust and 
mutual respect in all its employees and seeks to ensure that 
core values and principles of the company are understood 
by all and are the reference point in all people matters.
Industrial relations at all the units and locations are cordial. 
Cautionary Statement
Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis describing 
the Company’s objectives, expectations or predictions may be 
forward looking within the meaning of applicable securities, 
laws and regulations. Actual results may differ materially from 
those expressed in the statement. Important factors that would 
influence the Company’s operations include cost of raw materials, 
tax laws, interest and power cost and economic developments 
particularly in view of ongoing pandemic COVID 19 and such 
other factors within the country and the international economic 
and financial developments.