part_0: The Indian economy has undergone significant structural reforms in the last seventeen months, which have put it on a sound growth path. The introduction of the Goods and Service Tax (GST) has integrated the country's economy, reducing the incidence of indirect tax on most products. The streamlining of GST implementation and tax rates took time, causing upheaval in the first half of last year. The introduction of the Realty Estate Regulation Act (RERA) affected the growth of the piping business in the housing sector for several months. The government's initiatives to boost rural income and infrastructure are now fructifying, leading to faster growth in business from April 2018 and beyond. The company envisages favorable business conditions in the year ahead, with the expectation of putting two new Greenfield plants in production this year, one at Telangana and another at Rajasthan. The company also intends to start two new plants at Andhra Pradesh and Assam. The company's units to make up automobile products at Khuskhera have been put in a joint venture with a Japanese company, and the company may divest its small holding in that unit within 2-3 years after start-up. Despite the hardening of polymer prices and lack of new capacity build-up of PVC resin worldwide, the polymer prices will remain affordable. The effect of demonetization, GST, and RERA has settled down, and the economy is moving towards the formal sector, which augurs well for boosting economic activity in the country.
part_1: The Supreme Industries Limited has recast its product groups into plastics, piping, systems, consumer products, industrial products, packaging products, and composite products. The company's net turnover for the year was INR 498,380 crores, including INR 6,577 crores from trading in related products and INR 2,428 crores from the sale of premises. The company sold 371,176 tons of plastic products, reflecting a growth of 9% in product turnover by volume. The company exported goods worth US$1,693 million, reflecting an increase from the previous year. The company operates from 25 manufacturing sites in 11 states and union territories and has added distributors to increase its reach across the country. The company has also started selling products directly to big retailers in areas where it could not find suitable distributors. The company is committed to increasing its reach and plans to start working on two new sites to put up plants in Andhra Pradesh and Assam during the current year. The company's strength and growth drivers include its manufacturing sites and distribution network.
part_2: The Company is focused on growing its plastic piping system business, which is the largest portfolio of products in the industry. The introduction of GST in India is expected to shift business from unorganized to organized players, leading to growth in the Company's business. Despite an overall revenue growth of 10% in plastic piping systems, the growth was not up to the Company's expectations due to the introduction of GST and the Real Estate Regulation Act. The Company has incurred Capex of R 144 crore to build more capacities and increase product range. The Company has also acquired 50 acres of land in Telangana to expand its manufacturing footprint for plastic piping division. The Company is strengthening its brand through increased expenditure on advertisement and legal recourse to contain counterfeit products. The Company expects good demand coming from the housing sector in the upcoming year due to the government's focus on sanitation, affordable housing, and development of smart cities. The Company will launch other piping system products at the new location in the next one to two years.
part_3: The Supreme Industries Limited has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the State Government of Andhra Pradesh to establish a project in Nellore district. The company is currently working to acquire approximately 40 acres of land to begin manufacturing. The goal is to start production in the second half of 2019-2020. The Kharagpur plant is fully operational, and the company is exploring further capacity increases for HDPE Pipes. The company is also expanding its Malanpur Unit No. 3 to meet the increasing demand of HDPE Pipes in North India. The company has also introduced 195 new varieties of injection-moulded pipe fittings, which have been well-received in the market. The sale of moulded fittings increased by 6% in volume terms during the year under review. The company plans to introduce further new items during the year as per system requirement. The company's business to export market during the year saw a growth of 48% in US terms. The company is continuously trying to boost its export business of Piping Systems. The Division's Value Added Products sale was 3176. The company has also added further 68 direct business channel partners during the year, taking the total to 984 Nos.
part_4: The company is expanding its services by directly servicing retailers in selected markets and establishing multiple Knowledge Centres across the country. However, the growth in the segment of CPVC Fire Sprinkler System installation in residential and commercial buildings will be slow due to the time-consuming process of seeking approval from different authorities in different states. The lack of a single authority to approve the product and the absence of a published standard for CPVC Fire Sprinkler Fittings are also hindering the implementation of the system. The company is putting in efforts to create awareness about its products by meeting with various developers, consultants, and installers in major cities. The company has installed the system in Mumbai, Pune, and Goa, which will serve as a showcase for future buyers, consultants, and installers. The installers who did the mockup installations are satisfied with the ease and speed of installation and the reduced skill requirement. The company has developed moulds for fast running fittings, and the samples are under testing with Underwriters Laboratories UL, which will enhance the company's efficiency in delivering products to end-users with speed. The company is also participating in various Fire and Safety exhibitions in India and abroad as part of promotion.
part_5: The Supreme Industries Limited has reported good response from Indian and overseas buyers for its 'Supreme Flameguard' brand. The company has also supplied its products to a hotel project in Sri Lanka and a distributor in the Philippines. The company expects to complete the indigenous development of its products during the current calendar year. To support environmental concerns, the company is phasing out lead stabilizers from the manufacturing of different types of uPVC pipes. The company's furniture business grew by 11% on value terms and 8% on volume terms, whereas the overall plastic furniture industry grew by only 4% on value terms. The company faced initial hiccups in business with the GST regime, but the reduction in GST rate from 28% to 18% gave a boost to the business, resulting in a healthy 16% growth in the second half of 2017-18. The company currently manufactures injection-moulded furniture and blow-moulded furniture. It has five units manufacturing injection-moulded furniture across the country. The company has also started manufacturing blow-moulded tables at its Kharagpur West Bengal plant. The company is putting up a greenfield plant at Jadcherla, Telangana, for manufacturing injection-moulded furniture for increasing its market share in southern India. The company believes the new plant will also be a good feeder unit for all other parts of the country due to its central location and good connectivity. The plant is likely to go into production by the third quarter of this year and contribute to growth in the last two quarters.
part_6: Therncompany has established itself as a premium brand amongstrnits trade channel and customers due to its continuous focusrnon Quality innovation and wide range of products. During the year, the company increased its strength of channel partnersrnfrom 814 Nos to 900 Nos and continues to increase itsrnpresence in the unrepresented areas. The company's new product line of Blow Moulded Tables has been well received by customers and is considered top class in quality. At present, the company is offering tables in 8 sizes and will be adding 4 more sizes by the end of September 2018. The company also plans to develop more products to cater to different market segments. The company introduced 7 new furniture models during the year. The Fusion Series of Cupboards found very high acceptance amongst the customers due to its unique aesthetic design. The company continues to focus on developing its export market and has found good acceptance by various customers. The year started against the backdrop of improved business sentiments resulting from gradual economic recovery because of various reforms initiated by the government. Demand revival took momentum in various segments including Automotive and Consumer Durable sector in which the Division has a major business portfolio. The good monsoon also helped demand boost in Automotive.
part_7: The Appliances Division of The Supreme Industries Limited experienced growth in both volume and value terms over the previous year, with the Noida Plant revenue improving significantly and growing by 46%. The company expects further expansion in demand, particularly in the AC segment, which is showing healthy growth. To meet the demand of one of the company's major AC customers and reduce logistics costs, a new plant in Ghiloth, Rajasthan is expected to go into production in the April-June quarter. The Noida Plant has undergone layout changes and improvements to make it future-ready, and received the prestigious Award of TPM Excellence from the Japan Institute of Plant Maintenance. The Auto Business in western India, including the Talegaon Plant, experienced robust growth in sales revenue, with supply successfully established for one of Honda Car's SUV models. The Khushkhera Plant also saw sales growth and established supplies for prestigious models. The company is aggressively focusing on improving business development to strengthen its position in the market. The company is continuously exploring good business opportunities from Maruti, Honda, and other tier one customers in many of their new models.
part_8: The Company aims to become a complete source of supply from designing to development and supply of products. To achieve this, it has entered into a joint venture with Kumi Kasei Co Ltd, a major supplier to Honda for interior parts for automotive applications worldwide. The joint venture will take over the Khushkhera plant operations and improve the technological competence of the Auto Comp Business. The Chennai plant registered a growth of only 4% due to capacity constraints, but the Company plans to expand and increase the plant capacity to acquire future opportunities. The prospects in the automotive sector for this unit are looking bright, and the Company expects good growth with its major customer in the years to come. The Pondy plant achieved a healthy volume growth of about 40% driven by good demand for Whirlpool Washing Machines. The Durgapur plant also achieved healthy value and volume growth of 28% and 15%, respectively, due to the maturation of new businesses acquired during the previous year and the current year. The Company has planned both capacity and capability enhancement at Pondy by taking a series of actions. It has initiated some layout changes for optimum utilization of space, improving safety standards, and augmenting plant capacity. The Company expects business to grow with its major customer during the years to come.
part_9: The plant of a company has experienced significant growth and is expected to continue growing this year. The company has planned layout changes and initiatives for TPM Excellence to improve overall operations. The company has also rationalized and reoriented machine capacities at various locations to align with the changed product mix. New machines and equipment have been added with the latest technology for better quality and productivity. Automation is being considered for better productivity and quality wherever feasible and cost-effective. These initiatives will enhance quality, productivity, safety, energy conservation, and cost optimization. The company has received various awards and recognitions from its customers for its support in quality, cost, delivery, and new product development. The company is constantly reorienting its employees to ensure utmost focus on customer satisfaction. The material handling division has shown growth despite the effects of demonetization and the GST regime. The crate division has shown healthy growth in various segments, including automobile, FMCG, white goods, engineering, and retail sectors. The company provides customized solutions by fabrication to its valued customers. The company's crate business has been decreasing in the dairy and fruits and vegetables segment due to the abundant use of reprocessed material. Overall, the company is focused on continuous efforts to increase customer and product base, bring in new technology, and ensure sustained growth with profits.
part_10: The Supreme Industries Limited has achieved a 12% volume growth in their Injection Moulded Pallet business. The company has also developed new products that are expected to receive a positive response from customers. MHD products made by Roto Moulding have shown a growth of 20% over the last year, and the company plans to enhance capacity for Roto Moulded products. However, the bottle crates for soft drinks did not perform well due to dependence on two major soft drink players. The company is introducing new products in the garbage handling segment due to the Swatch Bharat Mission of the Central Government. The company is setting up a new complex in Telangana and is hopeful of achieving better growth in the current year. In the packaging films division, there was no growth possible due to full capacity utilization. The company's thrust on export resulted in a robust growth of 61% in volume. The protective packaging division recorded a 16% growth in value and 17.5% in volume. The overall packaging business was good, but the insulation grade crosslinked polyethylene foam business has continued to decline due to substandard products from competitors. The division has taken up the challenge to build quality awareness.
part_11: The Supreme Industries Limited has commenced production at its NBR sheet plant after a delay of over four months due to delayed supply of equipment. This will enhance the company's product offering for insulation range of products. However, competition may remain fierce in the coming year. The demand for the DURA range of products is expected to improve in the current year as many civil projects are getting restarted. The market response for the new ranges of products like children education toys, sports, health sector, and interiors has been encouraging. The division is now an approved vendor of Decathlon, a leading global sports goods retailer for yoga mats. The acoustic range of products hasn't picked up as expected due to the limited availability of NBR bonded block foam and some technical issues related to the other range of products. The production capacity of Kharagpur unit will be enhanced by 2600 MTPA during the current year by constructing a new building and addition of Cross Linked Foam products. The division has also started getting good demand of civil and insulation range of products from the Middle East market. The packaging vertical grew by 20.08% in value and 21% in volume as against last year. The R&D team is working on developments of new variants of polyethylene foam range of products which are application-specific.
part_12: Nunit has modified its production to create a new range of composite products that were not possible before. The company expects growth in the premium range of products during the year. The business of two-stage block foam, which was sluggish over the past few years, is now picking up, and it is expected that the capacity will be well utilized in the current year. The business of EVA foam molded products has not yet started, but several products for the sports and health sector have been identified and will be launched by the end of the first quarter. The growth of the insulation division was 729% in value and 351% in volume. The technical team of the division has been working on innovative ideas to develop new products, new applications, upgrading of existing processing facilities, and other segments. The business of cross-laminated film and products had a de-growth during the year, which witnessed a slowdown in the economy in the first half due to the rollout of Goods and Services Tax (GST). Prior to the launch of GST on 1st July 2017, there was a lot of confusion, particularly amongst the traders, regarding eligibility of credit of duties paid on the purchase of goods that remained in stock on the date of GST implementation.
part_13: During the first quarter of the year, the company experienced a low level of sales due to the high GST rate on their main product, tarpaulin. Although the rate was later reduced, the company lost a significant amount of business. However, there was some growth in the 35GSM Silpoly Liner business, which the company is promoting in newer applications with positive response. With the prediction of a normal monsoon, the company is hopeful that the demand for their products, which are mainly used in the agriculture sector, will increase. The company is also working on developing specialized new applications to increase their market size and reach new customers. They are showcasing their products in various international exhibitions to expand their presence in new markets. The company has also acquired all the rights in the patents of Cross Line Bonded Film, which is expected to bring in savings in royalties in the coming years. The company is focusing on developing newer applications and entering several international markets in the coming year. They have also developed commercial premises to monetize their land parcel where their first own manufacturing unit was functional.
part_14: The Supreme Industries Limited has many eco-friendly features and a well-designed green landscape area, with excellent infrastructure and utilities. At the beginning of the year, the company had 63,868 sqft of saleable area available for sale, and during the year, they sold 12,610 sqft of saleable area for an aggregate consideration of R 2428 Crs. The company hopes to monetize the remaining premises of about 51,258 sqft of saleable area during the current year. The company has developed composite LPG cylinders and has received approval from TUV PESO and KGS. The company has acquired a 10% business interest in HPC Research sro, a start-up company focusing on R&D in Composite Cylinders in the Czech Republic, which will strengthen its R&D footprint in the field of Pressure Vessels. The net borrowing level at the end of the year was R 24,640 crores, and the average monthly borrowings were R 33,595 crores. The financial cost as a percentage of turnover was 0.44, and the total debt equity ratio was 0.14. Despite RBI keeping the policy rates under control, there was an increase in interest rate scenario in India and US FED rates continue to increase, resulting in higher costs for borrowings under Buyerxe.
part_15: The discontinuation of Letter of Undertakings (LOUs) by RBI may make it difficult for companies to avail low-cost working capital credit in foreign currency. However, the company in question managed to reduce its overall finance cost by relying on low-cost commercial papers, low-cost borrowings from banks, and a judicious and consistent hedging policy. The company has not availed any fresh loans and has repaid term loan installments. It has no plans to increase its borrowings level and is committed to becoming virtually debt-free except for its working capital requirements in the next year. The Dealers' finance facilities extended by Standard Chartered Bank are becoming popular among the company's channel partners. The company is also availing extended maturity payables to its creditors, effectively managing its vendors. The company's short-term bank facilities have been reaffirmed at "CRISIL A1," the highest rating for short-term instruments. The long-term banking facilities have been reaffirmed at "CRISIL AA Stable." The company has increased its investment plan to around R 450 crores in this year, mainly to put up a new unit at Assam and start a Greenfield Plastics Product. The company envisages Capex in the range of about R 300 to 350 crores during the current year.
part_16: The company has undertaken several initiatives to expand its business in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. These include acquiring land, putting up a plant to make protective packaging products, manufacturing plastic pipes, increasing HDPE plant capacity, and investing in automation. The company plans to finance its Capex program through internal accruals and supplier credit. The company has adequate internal audit and control systems, and both internal and statutory auditors evaluate the adequacy of the internal control system. The company has revisited its control systems in technical and non-financial areas to align them properly with Management Information Systems (MIS). The company considers human resources as key to its future growth strategy and focuses on aligning human resource policies, processes, and initiatives to meet its business needs. The company provides opportunities for training and learning within the country and abroad to keep employees abreast of technological and technical developments. The company maintains proper accounting records, safeguards assets against loss and misappropriation, complies with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and provides reasonable assurance against fraud and errors. However, the company cautions that actual results may differ materially from the objectives, expectations, or predictions expressed in the Management Discussion and Analysis due to several factors that influence the company's operations.
part_17: The Central and State Governments' initiatives have led to positive outcomes for the Company's Plastics Piping System Business. The focus on affordable housing, effective implementation of RERA, Swachha Bharat Mission, Amrut Yojana, and infrastructure building activities have contributed to the Company's growth. The Government's plan to build 100 smart cities is expected to boost business in the coming years. The Company has taken steps to put new production units and expand capacity in existing units, with all investment plans fructifying by June 2019. Raw material availability has been adequate and affordable, with PVC prices dropping suddenly in March, resulting in steep inventory loss and erosion of operating margin. However, the Company expects this lower price regime of PVC to continue for some time, broadening business volume and reducing working capital requirements. The Government's commitment to revisit GST rates may lead to the Company's products falling into a lower slab whenever the GST rates are compressed. The Company remains committed to boosting its value-added business and increasing its market share.
part_18: The Supreme Industries Limited has been aggressively working towards boosting its export business through intensive marketing and investments in products that can generate larger growth in export business. The company participated in 20 international exhibitions for its various products, which boosted its export turnover from 1693 million to 2305 million. In absolute quantum, the value-added product turnover has also shown a quantum jump, growing to R 1944 crores compared to the turnover of R 1734 crores in the year 2017-18. The company has recast its product groups into plastics piping systems, consumer products, industrial products, and packaging products. The net turnover of the company for the year under review was R 563247 crores, including R 4636 crores by way of trading in other related products and R 8085 crores from the sale of premises. The company has sold 397983 tons of plastic products, reflecting a growth of 7% in product turnover by volume. The company is operating from 25 manufacturing sites operating across 12 states and union territories. The focus of the company remains to grow the value-added businesses, and several investments were made and planned in the current year in this target to go on growing value-added business turnover.
part_19: Supreme Industries has opened two new facilities in Rajasthan and Telangana, while divesting its Khushkhera Unit to a newly formed joint venture company, Kumi Supreme India Private Limited. The company has also shifted its existing property, plant and equipment of Hosur Unit I to newly expanded Hosur Unit II to achieve better synergies and cost optimisation. Supreme Industries intends to start working on further new sites to put up new plants and is considering Orissa, Assam and Andhra Pradesh as probable destinations to expand its geographical spread. The company is committed to increasing its reach throughout the country and is continuously working on strengthening its distribution network. The distributors' strength has gone up to 3,778 by the end of March 2019 compared to 3,303 by March 2018. Supreme Industries is strengthening its brand in multiple ways by increasing its spend on advertisement through electronic and print media, participating in several exhibitions in India and abroad, and opening more knowledge centres in various parts of the country. The company continues its objective to grow its plastic pipe system business, registering an overall revenue growth of 16% in the year under review. The government's focus on Swatch Bharat Abhiyan, sanitation, affordable housing and smart cities has created opportunities for Supreme Industries.
part_20: The Supreme Industries Limited has launched ambitious plans to grow geometrically with the launch of their projects at multiple locations. The company expects good demand coming from the segment this year onwards. The company incurred Capex of R 127 crore in this year in its various plants to build more capacities and increase range. The company has got 50 acres of land allotted at Jadcherla District Mahaboobnagar at Telangana to make its footprint for manufacturing at South Zone for Plastic Piping Division. The production of Water Septic Tanks at that location has started. The company will launch other Piping System products at this location in this year. The company also intends to launch new specialty systems from Jadcherla plant for Piping System to cater to high-end applications. The company has put up the capacity in Malanpur Unit No3 to meet the increasing demand of HDPE Pipes in North India. The enhanced capacity for Roto Moulded Products is made operational at Kanpur and Malanpur plants. The company plans to substantially increase the business of Water Tanks through different market strategy of servicing directly to retailers from the respective factories. The production of Double Wall Corrugated HDPE Pipes has started from Gadegaon and Kharagpur plants with BIS Certification. The company introduced 63 nos of variety of Injection Moulded Pipe fittings during 2018-19. The total product portfolio in Plastic Pipe System has reached 8085 nos thus adding 35.
part_21: The company has expanded its range of plastic piping systems and has seen growth in sales of cPVC pipes and fittings. The Aquakraft bath fittings range has also been well established, with 13 new items introduced during the year. The company plans to further expand its range of bath fittings and enhance its manufacturing facilities. The company has also seen growth in its export business of piping systems and has added more direct business channel partners. The company has multiple knowledge centers across the country to train plumbers and interact with farmers, architects, and plumbing consultants. The company has also started a new activity called the "Plumbing Workshop" to educate plumbers and plumbing contractors on the latest techniques and new products. The company plans to organize close to 500 Plumbing Workshops during the year 2019-20. The company is also monitoring data of retailers who buy regularly through its distribution channels and has worked out an action plan to increase the number of such retailers on an all India basis.
part_22: The FlameGuard fire sprinkler system by an Indian company is gaining traction in the market, with many leading developers in Mumbai adopting it. The system is also being supplied to projects in other states and the company expects good business from the hotel industry across India. The company has achieved a license from the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) to manufacture the pipes and fittings, and is also UL listed. The company is developing more fittings indigenously to reduce dependency on imports and become more competitive. The BIS standard for the installation of the sprinkler system is not yet revised, but the CPVC as an alternate material is being considered in the draft. The company has multiple approvals from different states and cities, and is gearing up to meet environmental concerns by phasing out lead stabilizers from manufacturing of different types of uPVC pipes. In the furniture business, the company's growth has been higher than other leading brands of plastic furniture, but unorganized players continue to gather momentum due to high acceptance of brown color and matt finish products. The company has completed the process of setting up a Green Field project for the manufacture of injection-molded furniture at Jadcherla.
part_23: The Supreme Industries Limited has opened a new plant in Hyderabad, Telangana, which will serve as a feeder unit for all other zones due to its location connectivity. The additional capacity of this green field project will enable the company to grow rapidly during the year. The company currently manufactures 11 products made with Blow Moulded technology which have been well appreciated by the market. The company plans to launch six new products in the first quarter to cater to different market segments and increase acceptance of Blow Moulded products. The company is optimistic about future growth from this segment and would look forward to expanding its capacity for achieving economies of scale. The company plans to start manufacturing Roto Moulded Furniture and expects to launch four models of Roto Moulded Furniture in the first quarter of this year. The company's furniture is currently available to its customers through a nationwide network of 12,000 retailers. The company plans to add another 1,400 retailers during the year. The company has established itself as a premium brand amongst its trade channel and customers due to its continuous focus on quality, innovation, and a wide range of products.
part_24: The Company is focusing on developing its export market and has achieved good acceptance by various customers. It has participated in three international furniture exhibitions, resulting in breakthroughs with leading retailers in international markets. The Company achieved value growth of R 550 crores in the year under review compared to R 190 crores in the previous year. The Company has been awarded SA 8000 certification for its Lalru plant, reinforcing the practices adopted of international standards for social accountability. The Division started the year with projected growth of 16% and 18% in value and volume terms in both the automotive and consumer durable sectors put together. The trend was encouraging until November 2018 but took a severe beating thereafter due to sluggish demand. The Company acquired sizable orders for the supply of subassemblies for EVMs and VVPATs, which helped to cover the deficit in sales occurred during the last four months of the year. The Khushkhera Unit of the Division was transferred to a newly formed joint venture company, Kumi Supreme India Pvt Limited, promoted jointly with Kumi Kasai Co of Japan. The Company has put up a new plant at Ghiloth near Nimarana, Rajasthan, to meet the improved demand of one of its major AC customers. The Noida Plant revenue together with Ghiloth Plant grew by over 9%. The Company expects good long-term prospects of the JV Company with Maruti Suzuki, Honda Motors, and other tier 1 customers in many of its new models.
part_25: The demand for AC and coolers is steadily improving, indicating healthy growth in the future. The Noida and Ghiloth plants are poised to be focused entities for the White Goods Business. Both plants have embarked on an Operational Excellence Program to become future-ready. The auto business in western India improved further during FY1819, with revenue steadily improving from major customer Tata Motors being mainly serviced from the Talegaon Plant. The company acquired a major non-recurring order of EVM and VVPATs sub-assemblies, which kept the plant busy for more than two quarters, improving plant capacity utilization. The Chennai plant registered revenue growth of over 27%, buoyed by good demand from the Appliances Sector Customers. The Pondy plant achieved a good revenue growth of 16%, driven by good demand for washing machines. The Durgapur plant also achieved healthy value and volume growth of 28% and 25%, respectively, due to maturation of new businesses acquired during previous years. The company has taken a drive to rationalize and reorient the machine capacities at its various locations to align it with the changed product mix. The new machines and equipment being added are equipped with the latest technology, energy-efficient, designed for good repeatability for better quality and improved productivity. The company's various initiatives would support the environment and help go green. Continuous focus on employee engagement initiatives is helping the company to enhance its human capital. The journey towards excellence is being cultivated as a culture and will be continuous.
part_26: The Material Handling Products Division (MHD) has had a mixed performance, with good results in some sectors and below expectations in others. However, overall, the division has performed reasonably well during the year under review. The division caters to diverse industry needs with products such as crates for various industries, pallets for storage and transit of materials, and customized products. The industrial crates sector has grown by 9%, despite flat results in the automobile and engineering appliances sectors. The division has introduced new crate models that have been well accepted by customers and are expected to drive growth next year. The company continues to provide customized fabricated crate solutions for major automobile and appliance customers. In the dairy business, the company has developed a patented design model that is expected to be a game-changer in the industry. The pallet division has posted excellent results with growth of over 34%, achieved through industrial customers only. The division has introduced a new product line, PP Corrugated Sheet, aimed at providing high-quality customized value-added products to customers. The roto products of the division have shown positive trends with over 13% growth. The company has introduced one model in injection-molded dustbin with high acceptance. The division shall be introducing many customized solutions in this category also during the year for even better growth.
part_27: The Supreme Industries Limited has achieved success with its rnmodel and has plans for other models to ensure market participation and be a part of the Swachha Bharat Mission. However, the Bottle Crates business of the Division has suffered due to poor demand from major soft drink players. The company follows strict quality norms and refrains from using recycled plastic, particularly demanded in Fruit and Vegetable crates category, which are sold only to selected quality-conscious customers. The Division is continuously growing its distribution network with over 210 channel partners all over India, but still needs to strengthen its network and increase its distribution spread, especially in eastern and southern India. The company received an order for 80,000 cylinders for supplies to Bangladesh, but had to stop supplies beyond 63,000 cylinders due to quality problems with some bought-out components. The company's technical team has found a workable solution to address the issue in Bangladesh, but it will take a few months to resolve. The company has also achieved expansion in capacity at its existing location in Khopoli with the acquisition of a new 7 layer film extrusion unit and an 8 colour CI Flexographic Printing press, which will help deliver better quality products and improve lead times due to increased flexibility of production capabilities.
part_28: The Protective Packaging Division (PPD) of a company has experienced a slowdown in business due to competitive pressure and an increase in manufacturing capacity in the industry. The overall sales volume and value have decreased, and exports have also been lower due to stiff competition from Indian manufacturers. However, the company remains optimistic in the current year due to its quality commitment and service, and it expects to achieve substantial volume and value growth in this business. The PPD has recorded growth in value and volume during the year under review, and the division has installed additional foam production capacity to meet the increasing demand for south market. The division is also starting a new facility at the Jadcherla complex to cater to the increasing demand in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and neighboring states. The company has started commercial production of a new NBR sheet plant, and the division will be offering a comprehensive list of thermal insulating products. The two units at Hosur were merged into a single unit, and the overall production capacity stands at 15000 tons against 100. Despite the challenges faced by the PPD, the company is taking steps to create value-added products to its portfolio and enhance its productivity to cater to the increasing demand.
part_29: The Supreme Industries Limited has seen significant growth in various verticals in the past year. The South Zone has shown significant growth in business, with an increase in the capacity of EPE foam and the commencement of production of single-stage crosslinked block foam. However, the introduction of new pollution control norms in Maharashtra has affected the business of the West Zone. The packaging vertical has grown due to the superior quality of low-density polyethylene foam business. The Tandem Foam Extruder has been a key factor in the growth of this business. The company has developed several items for Decathlon and is in talks to enroll Supreme as a global supplier by Decathlon. The overall installed production capacity has increased from 5000 MTPA to 6300 MTPA. The civil business has grown due to increased infrastructure development in the country. The insulation vertical has shown significant growth due to the introduction of NBR sheets and large diameter tubes. The company has developed several low-cost products with better properties to counter the multiple manufacturers entering the field. The RD team is working to reduce the cost of products without compromising quality. The company expects further improvement in the coming year.
part_30: The division is focused on developing a range of insulation products, including acoustic insulation, and has participated in international exhibitions to expand its export opportunities. The company's INSU range of products has been certified as GREEN by CII and meets international standards for fire resistance. The division has also developed a 500 kg/hr Tandem Extruder for making low-density foam, giving it an advantage over competitors. In the business of cross-laminated film products, the company's main products are tarpaulins, bags, fumigation covers, vermi beds, rainwater harvesting sheets, and pond liners. With the Indian government focusing on water conservation, the demand for pond liners has increased, and the company's new fabricated products have been well-received by the market. The company has also started manufacturing and selling tarpaulins made from its own generated reprocess granules, targeting the low-cost tarpaulin segment. The division expects good business growth in the current year and is working on developing additional insulation products and obtaining further international certifications to expand its export opportunities.
part_31: The Supreme Industries Limited is a company that specializes in the manufacturing of plastic products. The company has been promoting its products made from Cross Line Bonded Film, which is now available in all thicknesses and has patent protection. The company is planning to increase its capacity to manufacture these products and has tied up with local players in the USA to sell the product online on Amazon through some store chains online and offline. The company is also planning to showcase its product in exhibitions to be held in South East Asia, Latin America, Africa, and the USA to open up new markets and strengthen existing ones. The company's exports have grown by 14% in volume over the previous year, and its bags are finding more acceptance from industrial product makers. The company has also developed commercial premises called "Supreme Chambers" with a view to monetize the land parcel it held on shifting its manufacturing activities out of Mumbai. The company has sold 38718 sq ft saleable area at an aggregate consideration of R 8085 crores, and only 12540 sq ft remaining area is available for sale. The company's net borrowing level at the end of the year was R 16094 crores, and the average monthly borrowings were R 26558 crores. The interest finance charges were R 2600 crores, and the average cost was R 2064 crores.
part_32: The company in review had a high financial cost as a percentage of turnover, with a total debt to equity ratio of 0.008 to 0.014. The RBI kept key policy rates elevated for most of the year, resulting in higher borrowing costs for the company's working capital requirements. The company managed to restart availing of buyer's credit funding directly from overseas lenders at competitive rates, but with the latest RBI guidelines, the company's cost of borrowing is expected to go up. The company has progressed well with its dealers' finance facilities, with more channel partners interested in enrolling on the channel finance scheme. The company has repaid its entire term debt component and has become debt-free except for its working capital facilities. The company's short-term bank facilities have been reaffirmed at "CRISIL A1," the highest rating for short-term instruments, while the long-term bank facilities have been upgraded from "CRISIL AA Stable" to "CRISIL AA Positive Outlook Revised from stable and rating reaffirmed." The outlook revision is driven by the improvement in the company's business risk profile led by strengthening presence in the domestic market.
part_33: The Supreme Industries Limited is a plastic products company with a strong market position across multiple segments in the industry. The company has a wider distribution network and is expected to increase the number of manufacturing facilities. The high-margin value-added products contribute around 35% to the revenue. The company has incurred a capital expenditure (Capex) of R 384 crores during the year under review to increase the capacity of various products. The company envisages Capex in the range of about R 300-350 crores during the current year to establish new manufacturing facilities and expand the capacity of existing ones. The company has divested its Khushkheda unit and relocated all its Plant Machineries from Hosur unit 1 to Hosur unit 2. The company has also realized R 8085 crores from the sale of commercial property. The company is investing in innovative fabricating machines, end of the line fabrication machines, and balancing machines to produce new fabricated products and increase the capacity of existing products. The company is expanding its capacities in Industrial Product Division at Ghiloth and Chennai moulding unit.
