1
Contents
Notice of Annual General Meeting
 
.................................
2
Boards™ Report
 
...............................................................
9
Management Discussion and Analysis
 
.........................
 33
Corporate Governance
 
................................................
43
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
 
.........
56
Independent Auditors™ Report
 
......................................
93
Balance Sheet
 
............................................................
102
Statement of Profit and Loss
 
.......................................
103
Cash Flow Statement
 
.................................................
104
Statement of Change in Equity
 
...................................
105
Notes to Financial Statements
 
....................................
106
Consolidated Financial Statements
 
.............................
142
Works Locations
 
........................................................
167
Company Information
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
B. L. Taparia, Chairman
M. P. Taparia, Managing Director
S. J. Taparia, Executive Director
V. K. Taparia, Executive Director
R. Kannan, Director

R. M. Pandia, Director
Ms. Ameeta Parpia, Director

Sarthak Behuria, Director
B. V. Bhargava, Director (upto 16
th
 September, 2021)
Y. P. Trivedi, Director (upto 16
th
 September, 2021)
BANKERS
Axis Bank Ltd.
Citi Bank
HDFC Bank Ltd.
HSBC
ICICI Bank Ltd.
J.P.Morgan Chase Bank
Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd.
Standard Chartered Bank

Yes Bank Ltd.
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
P. C. Somani
VP (CORPORATE AFFAIRS)
 
& COMPANY SECRETARY
R.J. Saboo
AUDITORS
M/s. Lodha & Co.
 
Chartered Accountants
REGISTERED OFFICE
612, Raheja Chambers, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021.
Tele: 022-2285 1159, 6257 0025
Website: http://www.supreme.co.in
Email: investor@supreme.co.in

CIN: L35920MH1942PLC003554
CORPORATE OFFICE
1161 & 1162 Solitaire Corporate Park,
167, Guru Hargovindji Marg, Andheri Ghatkopar Link Road,
Andheri (E), Mumbai 400 093
Tele: 022-4043 0000 Fax: 022-4043 0099

Website: http://www.supreme.co.in
Email: supreme@supreme.co.in
WORKS
1.
 
Derabassi (Punjab)
2.
 
Durgapur (West Bengal)
3.
 
Gadegaon (Maharashtra)
4.
 
Ghiloth (Rajasthan)
5.
 
Guwahati (Assam)
6.
 
Halol Œ Unit I (Gujarat)
7.
 
Halol Œ Unit II (Gujarat)
8.
 
Halol Œ Unit III (Gujarat)
9.
 
Halol Œ Unit IV (Gujarat)
10.
 
Hosur (Tamil Nadu)
11.
 
Jalgaon Œ Unit I (Maharashtra)
12.
 
Jalgaon Œ Unit II (Maharashtra)
13.
 
Jadcherla (Telangana)
14.
 
Kanhe (Maharashtra)
15.
 
Kanpur (Uttar Pradesh)
16.
 
Kharagpur (West Bengal)
17.
 
Khopoli (Maharashtra)
18.
 
Malanpur Œ Unit I (Madhya Pradesh)
19.
 
Malanpur Œ Unit II (Madhya Pradesh)
20.
 
Malanpur Œ Unit III (Madhya Pradesh)
21.
 
Noida (Uttar Pradesh)
22.
 
Puducherry (Union Territory)
23.
 
Silvassa (Union Territory)
24.
 
Sriperumbudur (Tamil Nadu)
25.
 
Urse (Maharashtra)
OFFICES
1.
 
Ahmedabad
8.
 
Kolkata
15.
 
Guwahati
2.
 
Bangalore
9.
 
Mumbai
16.
 
Patna
3.
 
Chennai
10.
 
Noida
17.
 
Ranchi
4.
 
Cochin
11.
 
Pune
18.
 
Raipur
5.
 
Hyderabad
12.
 
Jaipur
19.
 
Vijaywada
6.
 
Indore
13.
 
Jabalpur
7.
 
Kanpur
14.
 
Bhubaneswar
2
Notice
NOTICE is hereby given that the 80th  Annual General Meeting 
of the Members of The Supreme Industries Limited will be held 

through Video Conferences (ﬁVCﬂ) / Other Audio Visual Means 
(ﬁOAVMﬂ) on Wednesday the 29
th
 June, 2022, at 4.00 p.m. to 
transact with or without modification(s), as may be permissible, 
the following businesses. 
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.
 
To receive, consider and adopt:
a)
 
The Audited financial statements of the Company for 
the financial year ended 31
st
 March, 2022, including 
the Audited Balance Sheet as at 31
st
 March, 2022, the 
Statement of Profit & Loss and Cash Flow Statement, for 

the year ended on that date and reports of the Board 
of Directors and Auditors thereon.
b)
 
The Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of the 

Company for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 
2022.
2.
 
To appoint a Director in place of Shri S.J. Taparia (Director 
Identification No. 00112513), who retires by rotation and 
being eligible, offers himself for reappointment.
3.
 
To declare final dividend on Equity Shares for the Financial 
Year ended 31
st
 March, 2022 and to confirm payment of 
Interim dividend on Equity Shares declared by the Board of 

Directors of the Company. 
4.
 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution 

as an Ordinary Resolution:
 
ﬁRESOLVED THAT
 pursuant to provisions of Section 143(8) 

and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies 

Act, 2013 and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, as amended from time to time, the Board be and is 
hereby authorised to appoint Branch Auditors of any branch 

of the Company, whether existing or which may be opened/ 

acquired hereafter, in consultation with the Company™s 
auditors, any person(s) qualified to act as Branch Auditors 
and to fix their remuneration.ﬂ
SPECIAL BUSINESS
5. 
 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification, the following resolution as a 
Special Resolution
:
 
ﬁRESOLVED THAT
 pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 
17(1A) of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 
2015 and other applicable provisions, if any, as amended 
from time to time and subject to such approvals, consents, 
permissions, terms and conditions, if any, as may be 
considered and necessary from the appropriate authorities, 
consent of the Members of the Company be and is hereby 

accorded for continuation of holding of office of Shri 
Ramanathan Kannan (DIN : 00380328), who will attain  75 
years of age on 23
rd
 September, 2022, as a Non-Executive 
Independent Director of the Company, up to the expiry of 

his present term of office i.e. upto 15
th
 September, 2025, as 
approved by Members in the Annual General Meeting held 
on 17
th
 September, 2020.
 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT
 the Board of Directors and 
Company Secretary of the Company be and are hereby 
authorised to do all acts and take all such steps as may 
be necessary, proper or expedient to give effect to this 
Resolution.ﬂ
6.
 
To ratify the remuneration payable to Cost Auditors and in 

this regard to consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an 
Ordinary Resolution
 
ﬁRESOLVED THAT
 pursuant to the provisions of Section 148 
and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 (including any statutory modification(s) or 
amendment(s) or re-enactments thereof for the time being 

in force), M/s. Kishore Bhatia & Associates, Cost Accountants 
(Firm Registration No. 00294), appointed as Cost Auditors 
by the Board of Directors of the Company to conduct the 
Audit of the Cost records of the Company for the financial 
year ending on 31
st
 March, 2023, be paid a remuneration 
of 
R
 6,60,000/- (Rupees Six Lakhs Sixty thousand Only) per 
annum plus reimbursement of all out of pocket expenses as 

may be incurred in connection with the audit of the accounts 
of the Company.
 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT
 the Board of Directors and 
Company Secretary of the Company be and are hereby 
authorized to do all acts and take all such steps as may 
be necessary, proper or expedient to give effect to this 

resolution.ﬂ
NOTES:
1.
 
In view of the continuing Covid-19 pandemic and social 
distancing norm, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (ﬁMCAﬂ) 
has vide it™s circular dated April 8, 2020 and April 13, 2020, 
May 5, 2020 and January 13, 2021 and December 8, 2021 
and December 14, 2021 and May 5, 2022 (collectively 
referred to as ﬁMCA Circularsﬂ) and Securities and Exchange 
Board of India vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/
CIR/P/2020/79 dated May 12, 2020 and SEBI/HO/CFD/

CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11, Dated January 15, 2021 (referred 
to as ﬁSEBI Circularﬂ) permitted the holding of the ﬁAGMﬂ 
through Video Conferencing (VC) / Other Audio-Visual 
Means (OAVM), without the physical presence of the 
Members at a common venue. Accordingly, in compliance 
with the provisions of the MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars, 
the AGM of the Company is being held through VC / OAVM. 

Hence, Members can attend and participate in the AGM 
through VC/OAVM only.
2.
 
As the AGM shall be conducted through VC / OAVM, the 
facility for appointment of Proxy by the Members is not 

available for this AGM and hence the Proxy Form and 
Attendance Slip including Route Map are not annexed to 

this Notice. However, the Body Corporates are entitled 
to appoint authorised representatives to attend the AGM 

through VC/OAVM and participate there at and cast their 
votes through e-voting.
The Supreme Industries Limited
Regd. Office:
 612, Raheja Chambers, Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400021
CIN:L35920MH1942PLC003554
Email: investor@supreme.co.in, Website: www.supreme.co.in
Tel.: 022-2285 1159, 6257 0025, Fax: 022-2285 1657
3
3.
 
Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102(1) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, in respect of the Special Business at 
Item No. 5 & 6 of the above Notice is annexed hereto.
4.
 
The Company has engaged the services of National Securities 
Depository Limited (NSDL), to provide video conferencing 

facility and e-voting facility for the AGM.
5.
 
Corporate/Institutional Members (i.e. other than individuals, 

HUF, NRI etc.) are required to send scanned copy (PDF/JPG 

Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority letter 

etc. with attested specimen signature of the duly authorized 
signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer 
by e-mail to vvlaxman@gmail.com with a copy marked to 

evoting@nsdl.co.in. Institutional shareholders (i.e. other 

than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) can also upload their Board 

Resolution / Power of Attorney / Authority Letter etc. by 

clicking on ﬁUpload Board Resolution / Authority Letterﬂ 

displayed under ﬁe-Votingﬂ tab in their login.
6.
 
Register of Members and the Share transfer books of the 
Company will remain closed from Thursday the 23
rd
 June, 
2022 to Wednesday the 29
th
 June, 2022 (both days inclusive) 
for the purpose of Annual General Meeting and Dividend. 
7.
 
The Dividend, if declared, will be payable to those Equity 
Shareholders whose names stand on the Register of 

Members as at the close of business on 29
th
 June, 2022, 
and in respect of shares held in the electronic form, the 

dividend will be payable to the beneficial owners as at the 
close of business on Wednesday 22
nd
 June, 2022 as per 
details furnished by the Depositories for this purpose.
 
Pursuant to the Finance Act, 2020, dividend income is 
taxable in the hands of shareholders with effect from 
 
1
st 
April, 2020 and the Company is required to deduct tax at 
source from dividend paid to shareholders at the prescribed 
rates. For the prescribed rates for various categories, the 
shareholders are requested to refer to the Finance Act, 2020 

and amendments thereof. The shareholders are requested 

to update their PAN with Bigshare Services Private Limited 

(in case of shares held in physical mode) and DPs (in case 
of shares held in demat mode).
 
A Resident individual shareholder with PAN and who is not 
liable to pay income tax can submit a yearly declaration in 
Form No. 15G/15H, to avail the benefit of non-deduction 
of tax at source by e-mail to investor@supreme.co.in latest 

by Tuesday, 21
st
 June, 2022. Shareholders are requested to 
note that in case their PAN is not registered, the tax will be 
deducted at a higher rate of 20%. 
 
Non-resident shareholders can avail beneficial rates under 
tax treaty between India and their country of residence, 

subject to providing necessary documents, i.e. No Permanent 
Establishment and Beneficial Ownership Declaration, Tax 
Residency Certificate, Form 10F, any other document which 

may be required to avail the tax treaty benefits by sending 

an e-mail to investor@supreme.co.in latest by Tuesday, 21
st 
June, 2022.
8.
 
Pursuant to provisions of Section 124 and 125 of the 
Companies Act, 2013, dividends which remain unpaid or 
unclaimed for a period of 7 years, will be transferred to the 

Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) of the Central 

Government. Shareholders who have not encashed the 

dividend warrant(s) so far for the financial year ended 30
th 
June, 2015 or any subsequent financial years, are requested 

to make their claims to the Company at its Registered 
Office. It may be noted that once the unclaimed dividend 
is transferred, on the expiry of seven years, to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund, as stated here-in, no claim 
with the Company shall lie in respect thereof. Pursuant to
 

provisions of Section 124(6) and IEPF Authority (Accounting, 
Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, as amended by 

time to time, Company has transferred 248015 Nos of Equity 
Shares to IEPF Accounts.
9.
 
Members holding shares in electronic form may please 

note that their bank details as furnished by the respective 

Depositories to the Company will be printed on their 
dividend warrants/Demand Drafts as per the applicable 

regulations of the Depositories and the Company will not 
entertain any direct request from such members for deletion 

of/change in such bank details. Members may, therefore, give 
instructions regarding bank accounts in which they wish to 

receive dividend, directly to their Depository Participants. 
10.
 
Members holding shares in the same name under different 

Ledger Folios are requested to apply for consolidation of 

such Folios and send the relevant share certificates to M/s. 
Bigshare Services Pvt. Ltd., for doing the needful.
11.
 
SEBI Regulations has mandated Companies to credit the 

dividends electronically to the Members™ bank account. 
Members who hold shares in dematerialized form should 
inform their Depository Participant™s (DP) as well as to the 

Company and such Members holding shares in physical form 
should inform the Company, their Bank details viz. Bank 
Account Number, Name of the Bank and Branch details and 
MICR Code. Those Members who have earlier provided the 
above information should update the details if required.
12.
 
Members are requested to notify change in address, if any, 
immediately to M/s. Bigshare Services Pvt. Ltd., quoting their 
folio numbers.
13.
 
In terms of circulars issued by Securities and Exchange Board 

of India (SEBI), it is now mandatory to furnish a copy of PAN 
card to the Company or its RTA in the following cases viz. 
Deletion of name, Transmission of shares and Transposition 
of shares. Shareholders are requested to furnish copy of PAN 
card for all the above mentioned transactions.
14.
 
Details under Regulation 36 of SEBI (Listing Obligations 

and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, ﬁListing 

Regulationsﬂ in respect of the Director seeking re-
appointment at the Annual General Meeting, forms part 
of the Corporate Governance Report. The Directors have 
furnished the requisite declarations for their re-appointment.
15.
 
To prevent fraudulent transactions, members are advised 
to exercise due diligence and notify the Company of any 

change in address as soon as possible. The Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has made it mandatory for 
all companies to use the bank account details furnished by 
the Shareholders / Depositories for depositing of dividends.
16.
 
Members seeking any information with regard to Register 
of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their 
shareholding maintained under Section 170 of the Act, 
Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which directors 

are interested under Section 189 of the Act, and relevant 
documents referred to in the accompanying Notice and in 
the Explanatory Statements are requested to write to the 
Company on or before Friday, 24
th
 June, 2022, through 
email on investor@supreme.co.in. The same will be replied 

by the Company suitably.
ELECTRONIC DISPATCH OF ANNUAL REPORT AND 
PROCESS FOR REGISTRATION OF EMAIL ID FOR 

OBTAINING COPY OF ANNUAL REPORT, USER ID & 

PASSWORD AND REGISTRATION OF EMAIL ID FOR 

E-VOTING:
17.
 
In compliance with the aforesaid MCA Circulars and SEBI 
Circular, Notice of the AGM along with the Annual Report 
4
2021-22 is being sent only through electronic mode to those 
Members whose e-mail addresses are registered with the 
Company, RTA or CDSL / NSDL (ﬁDepositoriesﬂ). Members 

may note that the Notice and Annual Report 2021-22 will 
also be available on the Company™s website www.supreme.

co.in, websites of the Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited and 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.
com and www.nseindia.com respectively and on the website 
of NSDL at www.evoting.nsdl.com.
18.
 
Members holding shares in physical mode and who have 
not updated their email addresses with the Company are 
requested to update their email addresses by writing to the 

Company at investor@supreme.co.in along with the copy 
of the signed request letter mentioning the Folio No., name 

and address of the Member, self-attested copy of the PAN 
card, and self-attested copy of any document (eg.: Aadhaar, 
Driving License, Election Identity Card, Passport) in support 
of the address of the Member.
19.
 
Members holding shares in dematerialised mode are 

requested to register / update their email addresses with 
the relevant Depository Participants. In case of any queries 

/ difficulties in registering the e-mail address, Members may 
write to investor@supreme.co.in. If you are an Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode, you are 
requested to refer to the login method explained at 
step 
1 (A) i.e. Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual 
meeting for Individual shareholders holding securities in 

demat mode.
20.
 
Alternatively members may send a request to evoting@
nsdl.co.in for procuring user id and password for e-voting 
by providing above mentioned documents.
21.
 
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 on e-Voting 

facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through 
their demat account maintained with Depositories and 
Depository Participants. Shareholders are required to update 
their mobile number and email ID correctly in their demat 
account in order to access e-Voting facility.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR ATTENDING AGM THROUGH 
VC/OAVM ARE AS UNDER
22.
 
Member will be provided with a facility to attend the AGM 
through VC/OAVM through the NSDL e-Voting system. 
Members may access by following the steps mentioned below 
for 
Access to NSDL e-Voting system
. After successful login, 
you can see link of ﬁVC/OAVM linkﬂ placed under ﬁJoin 
meetingﬂ menu against company name. You are requested 
to click on VC/OAVM link placed under Join General 
Meeting menu. The link for VC/OAVM will be available in 
Shareholder/Member login where the ﬁEVEN 119932 of 

Company will be displayed. Please note that the members 

who do not have the User ID and Password for e-Voting 
or have forgotten the User ID and Password may retrieve 

the same by following the remote e-Voting instructions 
mentioned in the notice to avoid last minute rush.
23.
 
For convenience of the Members and proper conduct 
of AGM, Members can login and join at least 30 (thirty) 
minutes before the time scheduled for the AGM by 
following the procedure mentioned in the Notice and shall 
be kept open throughout the proceedings of AGM. The 

facility of participation at the AGM through VC/OAVM 
will be made available for 1000 members on first come 

first served basis. This will not include large Shareholders 
(Shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding), Promoters, 

Institutional Investors, Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, 
the Chairpersons of the Audit Committee, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee and Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee, Auditors etc. who are allowed to attend the 
AGM without restriction on account of first come first served 
basis.
24.
 
Members who need assistance before or during the AGM 
with use of technology, can send a request at evoting@nsdl.
co.in or use Toll free no.: 1800 1020 990 /1800 224 430
25.
 
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through 
Laptops for better experience. Further Members will be 

required to allow Camera and use Internet with a good 
speed to avoid any disturbance during the meeting.
26.
 
Please note that Participants Connecting from Mobile 
Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via Mobile 
Hotspot may experience Audio/Video loss due to Fluctuation 
in their respective network. It is therefore recommended to 

use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to mitigate any kind of 
aforesaid glitches.
PROCEDURE TO RAISE QUESTION / SEEK 
CLARIFICATIONS WITH RESPECT TO ANNUAL 

REPORT:
27.
 
Members who would like to express their views or ask 
questions during the AGM may register themselves as a 
speaker by sending their request from their registered email 
address mentioning their name, DP ID and Client ID/folio 
number, PAN, mobile number at investor@supreme.co.in 
from Tuesday 14
th
 June, 2022 (9:00 A.M. IST) to Saturday, 
18
th
 June, 2022 (5:00 P.M. IST). Those Members who have 
registered themselves as a speaker will only be allowed 

to express their views/ask questions during the AGM. 

The Company reserves the right to restrict the number of 
speakers depending on the availability of time for the AGM. 
 
Members may send their questions in advance mentioning 
their name, DP ID and Client ID/folio number, PAN, mobile 
number at investor@supreme.co.in during aforesaid period. 
The same will be replied by the Company suitably.
HELPDESK FOR INDIVIDUAL SHAREHOLDERS 
HOLDING SECURITIES IN DEMAT MODE FOR 

ANY TECHNICAL ISSUES REALTING TO LOGIN 

THROUGH DEPOSITORIES 
I
.
E
. NSDL AND CDSL
28.
 
Contact Details
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical 
issue in login can contact 
NSDL helpdesk by sending a 

request at evoting@nsdl.co.in 
or call at toll free no.: 1800 
1020 990 and 1800 22 44 30
Individual Shareholders 

holding securities in 
demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical 
issue in login can contact 
CDSL helpdesk by sending a 
request at helpdesk.evoting@

cdslindia.com or contact 
at 022-23058738 or 022-
23058542-43
VOTING THROUGH ELECTRONIC MEANS
29.
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Companies 

Act, 2013 read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014 (as amended) and 
5
Regulation 44 of SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations 2015 (as amended), read with 
MCA Circulars and SEBI Circular, Company is providing 
facility of remote e-voting to its Members to cast their vote 

electronically, through the E-voting services provided by 
NSDL on all the resolutions set forth in this Notice. The 
facility of casting votes by a member using remote e-voting 

system as well as e-voting on the date of the AGM will be 
provided by NSDL.
30.
 
The Company has appointed Mr. V. Laxman of M/s. V. Laxman 
& Company, Company Secretaries as the Scrutinizer to 
scrutinize the voting process in a fair and transparent manner.
31.
 
The Members who have cast their vote by remote E-voting 
prior to the AGM may also attend/ participate in the AGM 
through VC / OAVM but shall not be entitled to cast their vote 
again during the AGM. Members attending the AGM who 

have not cast their vote by remote e-voting shall be eligible 
to cast their vote through e-voting during the AGM. Members 
holding shares in physical form are requested to access the 

remote e-voting facility provided by the Company through 
NSDL e-voting system at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/.
 
Members who do not have the User ID and Password 
for e-Voting or have forgotten the User ID and Password 
may retrieve the same by following the remote e-Voting 
instructions mentioned in the notice. Further members can 

also use the OTP based login for logging into the e-Voting 
system of NSDL.
32.
 
The voting rights of Members shall be in proportion to their 
shares in the paid-up equity share capital of the Company 

as on the cut-off date i.e. Wednesday 22
nd
 June, 2022.
33.
 
Any person, who acquires shares of the Company and 

becomes a Member of the Company after sending of 
the Notice and holding shares as of the cut-off date, may 
obtain the login ID and password by sending a request at 

evoting@nsdl.co.in. However, if he/she is already registered 
with NSDL for remote E-voting then he/she can use his/her 
existing User ID and password for casting the vote. If you 

forgot your password, you can reset your password by using 
ﬁForgot User Details/Password?ﬂ or ﬁPhysical User Reset 
Password?ﬂ option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com. 
34.
 
It is strongly recommended not to share your password 

with any other person and take utmost care to keep your 
password confidential. Login to the E-voting website will 
be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in the 

correct password. In such an event, you will need to go 
through the ﬁForgot User Details/Password?ﬂ or ﬁPhysical 
User Reset Password?ﬂ option available on https://www. 
evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password.
35.
 
In case of any queries relating to E-voting you may refer to 

the FAQs for Shareholders and E-voting user manual for 
Shareholders available at the download section of https:// 

www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on toll free no.: (1800 1020 
990 /1800 224 430 or send a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in
 
In case of any grievances connected with facility for E-voting, 
please contact Ms. Pallavi Mhatre, Senior Manager, NSDL, 
4th Floor, ‚A™ Wing, Trade World, Kamala Mills Compound, 
Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400013. Email: 

evoting@nsdl.co.in/, (1800 1020 990 /1800 224 430)
36.
 
The attendance of the Members attending the AGM through 

VC/OAVM will be counted for the purpose of reckoning the 
quorum under Section 103 of the Companies Act, 2013.
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR REMOTE 
E-VOTING ARE AS UNDER:-
37.
 
The remote e-voting period begins on Saturday, 25
th
 June, 
2022 at 09:00 A.M. and ends on Tuesday, 28
th
 June, 2022 at 
05:00 P.M. The remote e-voting module shall be disabled 
by NSDL for voting thereafter. The Members, whose names 
appear in the Register of Members / Beneficial Owners as 

on the record date (cut-off date) i.e. on Wednesday 22
nd
 
June, 2022, may cast their vote electronically. The voting 
right of shareholders shall be in proportion to their share 
in the paid-up equity share capital of the Company as on 

the cut-off date, being Wednesday 22
nd
 June, 2022
.
38.
 
The details of the process and manner for remote E-voting 
using NSDL e-Voting system are explained herein below:
 
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
A) 
 
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual 
meeting for Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode
 
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 
on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
Individual shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode are allowed to vote through their demat 
account maintained with Depositories and Depository 
Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their 

mobile number and email Id in their demat accounts 
in order to access e-Voting facility.
 
Login method for Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of 
shareholders
 Login Method
Individual 

Shareholders 

holding 
securities in 
demat mode 

with NSDL.
1.
 
Existing IDeAS user can visit the 
e-Services website of NSDL Viz. https://
eservices.nsdl.com either on a Personal 
Computer or on a mobile. On the 

e-Services home page click on the 

ﬁBeneficial Ownerﬂ icon under ﬁLoginﬂ 
which is available under ‚IDeAS™ 
section , this will prompt you to enter 

your existing User ID and Password. 

After successful authentication, you 

will be able to see e-Voting services 
under Value added services. Click on 
ﬁAccess to e-Votingﬂ
 under e-Voting 

services and you will be able to see 

e-Voting page. Click on company 
name or 
e-Voting service provider 
i.e. NSDL 
and you will be re-directed 

to e-Voting website of NSDL for 

casting your vote during the remote 

e-Voting period or joining virtual 
meeting & voting during the meeting.
2.
 
If you are not registered for IDeAS 
e-Services, option to register is 

available at https://eservices.nsdl.com.  
Select 
ﬁRegister Online for IDeAS 
Portalﬂ
 or click at https://eservices.nsdl.
com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp 
6
Type of 
shareholders
 Login Method
3.
 
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. 
Open web browser by typing the 

following URL: https://www.evoting.

nsdl.com/ either on a Personal 

Computer or on a mobile. Once 

the home page of e-Voting system is 

launched, click on the icon ﬁLoginﬂ 

which is available under ‚Shareholder/

Member™ section. A new screen will 
open. You will have to enter your 
User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat 

account number hold with NSDL), 

Password/OTP and a Verification Code 

as shown on the screen. After successful 

authentication, you will be redirected to 

NSDL Depository site wherein you can 

see e-Voting page. Click on company 

name or 
e-Voting service provider 
i.e. NSDL
 and you will be redirected 
to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting 

your vote during the remote e-Voting 

period or joining virtual meeting & 

voting during the meeting.
 
4.
 
Shareholders/Members can also 
download NSDL Mobile App 
ﬁNSDL 
Speedeﬂ
 facility by scanning the QR 
code mentioned below for seamless 
voting experience.
 
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding 
securities in 
demat mode 
with CDSL
1.
 
Existing users who have opted for Easi 
/ Easiest, they can login through their 

user id and password. Option will be 

made available to reach e-Voting page 

without any further authentication. 
The URL for users to login to Easi / 
Easiest are https://web.cdslindia.com/

myeasi/home/login or www.cdslindia.

com and click on New System Myeasi.
2.
 
After successful login of Easi/Easiest 

the user will be also able to see the 
E Voting Menu. The Menu will have 
links of 
e-Voting service provider i.e. 
NSDL
. Click on 
NSDL
 to cast your vote.
3.
 
If the user is not  registered for Easi/

Easiest, option to register is available 

at https://web.cdslindia.com/

myeasi/Registration/EasiRegistration
4.
 
Alternatively, the user can directly 

access e-Voting page by providing 

demat Account Number and PAN 

No. from a link in www.cdslindia.

com home page. The system will 

authenticate the user by sending 

OTP on registered Mobile & Email as 

recorded in the demat Account. After 
successful authentication, user will be 
provided links for the respective ESP i.e. 

NSDL
 where the e-Voting is in progress.
Type of 
shareholders
 Login Method
Individual 
Shareholders 
(holding 
securities 

in demat 

mode) login 

through their 

depository 

participants
You can also login using the login 

credentials of your demat account through 
your Depository Participant registered 
with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility. 

upon logging in, you will be able to 

see e-Voting option. Click on e-Voting 

option, you will be redirected to NSDL/

CDSL Depository site after successful 

authentication, wherein you can see 

e-Voting feature. Click on company name 

or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and 
you will be redirected to e-Voting website 
of NSDL for casting your vote during the 

remote e-Voting period or joining virtual 

meeting & voting during the meeting.
 
Important note:
 Members who are unable to retrieve User 
ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget 
Password option available at abovementioned website.
B) 
 
Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for 

shareholders other than Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode and shareholders holding 
securities in physical mode.
 
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
1.
 
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser 
by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.

com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. 
2.
 
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, 
click on the icon ﬁLoginﬂ which is available under 
‚Shareholder/Member/ Creditor™ section.
3.
 
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your 

User ID, your Password/OTP and a Verification Code 
as shown on the screen.
 
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices 
i.e. IDEAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.

com/ with your existing IDEAS login. Once you log-in 
to NSDL eservices after using your log-in credentials, 
click on e-Voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. 

Cast your vote electronically.
4.
 
Your User ID details are given below :
Manner of holding 
shares i.e. Demat 

(NSDL or CDSL) or 

Physical
 Your User ID is:
a) For Members 
who hold 

shares in demat 

account with 

NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed by 
8 Digit Client ID
For example if your DP ID 
is IN300*** and Client ID is 

12****** then your user ID is 

IN300***12******.
b) For Members 
who hold 

shares in demat 
account with 
CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your Beneficiary 
ID is 12************** 
then your user ID is 
12**************
c) For Members 
holding shares 
in Physical Form.
EVEN Number followed by 

Folio Number registered with 

the company
For example if folio number is 
001*** and EVEN is 101456 
then user ID is 101456001***
7
5.
 
Password details for shareholders other than Individual 
shareholders are given below: 
a)
 
If you are already registered for e-Voting, then you 
can use your existing password to login and cast 
your vote.
b)
 
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for the first 

time, you will need to retrieve the ‚initial password™ 
which was communicated to you. Once you 
retrieve your ‚initial password™, you need to enter 
the ‚initial password™ and the system will force you 

to change your password.
c)
 
How to retrieve your ‚initial password™?
(i)
 
If your email ID is registered in your demat 
account or with the company, your ‚initial 

password™ is communicated to you on your 
email ID. Trace the email sent to you from 
NSDL from your mailbox. Open the email 

and open the attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open 
the .pdf file. The password to open the .pdf 
file is your 8 digit client ID for NSDL account, 

last 8 digits of client ID for CDSL account or 
folio number for shares held in physical form. 
The .pdf file contains your ‚User ID™ and your 

‚initial password™. 
(ii)
 
If your email ID is not registered, please 
follow steps mentioned below in 
process for 
those shareholders whose email ids are not 

registered
. 
6.
 
If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the 
ﬁInitial passwordﬂ or have forgotten your password:
a)
 
Click on ﬁ
Forgot User Details/Password?
ﬂ (If you 
are holding shares in your demat account with 
NSDL or CDSL) option available on www.evoting.
nsdl.com.
b)
 
ﬁ
Physical User Reset Password?
ﬂ (If you are 
holding shares in physical mode) option available 
on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
c)
 
If you are still unable to get the password by 

aforesaid two options, you can send a request 
at 
evoting@nsdl.co.in
 mentioning your demat 
account number/folio number, your PAN, your 

name and your registered address etc.
d)
 
Members can also use the OTP (One Time 

Password) based login for casting the votes on the 
e-Voting system of NSDL.
7.
 
After entering your password, tick on Agree to ﬁTerms 

and Conditionsﬂ by selecting on the check box.
8.
 
Now, you will have to click on ﬁLoginﬂ button.
9.
 
After you click on the ﬁLoginﬂ button, Home page of 
e-Voting will open.
 
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join General 
Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system.
 
How to cast your vote electronically and join General 

Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system?
1.
 
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see 
all the companies ﬁEVENﬂ in which you are holding 
shares and whose voting cycle and General Meeting is 
in active status.
2.
 
Select ﬁEVENﬂ of company for which you wish to cast 

your vote during the remote e-Voting period and casting 
your vote during the General Meeting. For joining 
virtual meeting, you need to click on ﬁVC/OAVMﬂ link 

placed under ﬁJoin Meetingﬂ.
3.
 
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting page 

opens.
4.
 
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. 
assent or dissent, verify/modify the number of shares for 
which you wish to cast your vote and click on ﬁSubmitﬂ 

and also ﬁConfirmﬂ when prompted.
5.
 
Upon confirmation, the message ﬁVote cast successfullyﬂ 
will be displayed. 
6.
 
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you 
by clicking on the print option on the confirmation 

page.
7.
 
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will 

not be allowed to modify your vote.
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR E-VOTING 
ON THE DAY OF THE AGM ARE AS UNDER:-
1.
 
The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the AGM is same 
as the instructions mentioned above for remote e-voting.
2.
 
Only those Members/ shareholders, who will be present in 

the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and have not casted 
their vote on the Resolutions through remote e-Voting and 
are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to 
vote through e-Voting system in the AGM.
3.
 
Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting will 

be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they will not be 

eligible to vote at the AGM.
4.
 
The details of the person who may be contacted for any 

grievances connected with the facility for e-Voting on the 
day of the AGM shall be the same person mentioned for 
Remote e-voting.
OTHER INSTRUCTIONS
39.
 
The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of 

voting at the AGM, first count the votes cast during the 
AGM, thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote 
E-voting and make within two working days of conclusion 
of the AGM, a consolidated Scrutinizer™s Report of the total 
votes cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman or a 
person authorised by him in writing, who shall countersign 
the same.
40.
 
The result declared along with the Scrutinizer™s Report shall 

be placed on the Company™s website at www.supreme.
co.in and on the website of NSDL at https://www.evoting.
nsdl.com immediately. The Company shall simultaneously 

forward the results to National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited and BSE Limited, where the shares of the Company 
are listed.
By order of the Board
R. J. Saboo
VP (Corporate Affairs) &
Company Secretary
Registered Office
612, Raheja Chambers,
Nariman Point, 
 
Mumbai 400 021
Date : 29
th
 April, 2022
8
Explanatory Statement under Section 102(1) of the Companies Act, 2013
I
TEM
 N
O
. 4
The Company has several branches in India and may also open 
/ acquire new branches in future. It is necessary to appoint 
Branch auditors for carrying out the audit of the accounts of 
such Branches. The Members are requested to authorize the 
Board of Directors of the Company to appoint Branch auditors 

in consultation with the Company™s Auditors and fix their 
remuneration. 
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel (or their 
relatives) are interested in the said resolution.
I
TEM
 N
O
. 5
The Members of the Company at their Seventy Third Annual 

General Meeting of the Company held on Wednesday the 
16
th
 September, 2015, had approved the appointment of Shri 
Ramanathan Kannan (DIN: 00380328), as Independent Director 
of the Company for a period of five years from 16
th 
September, 
2015 to 15
th
 September, 2020, and thereafter at Seventy Eight 
Annual General Meeting of the Company, held on Thursday 
17
th
September, 2020, had approved the re-appointment of Shri 
Ramanathan Kannan, as Independent Director of the Company 

for a further period of five years from 16
th
 September, 2020 to 
15
th
 September, 2025.
Shri Ramanathan Kannan will attain 75 years of age on 23
rd 
September, 2022, therefore in compliance with the provisions 
of Regulation 17(1A) of Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 

2015, members™ approval is required for continuation of his 
directorship up to the expiry of his term of office i.e. upto 15
th 
September, 2025.
Shri Ramanathan Kannan is a Post Graduate in Chemical 
Engineering and has vast experience in Petrochemicals and 
Polymers as also Project Finance. He has also served as a Director 
in various Companies.  The Board of Directors considers that 
Shri Ramanathan Kannan has the requisite expertise, versatility, 

extensive and enriched experience that will be of benefit to the 
Company. 
On the basis of the recommendation of the Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors at its meeting 
held on 29
th
 April, 2022, approved subject to members approval 
at ensuing Annual General Meeting, the continuation of Shri 
Ramanathan Kannan, as Non-Executive Independent Director 
of the Company as mentioned in the Resolutions set out under 

item no. 5.
Shri Ramanathan Kannan holds 7410 number of Shares, of Shares 

in the Company.
Shri Ramanathan Kannan is interested in this Resolution as set 
out in Item No 5. None of the other Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel or their relatives are in any way, concerned or 

interested in the said Resolutions.
The Board recommends the Special Resolution set out at Item 
No. 5  of Notice for approval by the members.
I
TEM
 N
O
. 6
The Board of Directors of the Company, on recommendation 
of the Audit Committee, has approved the appointment of 
 
M/s. Kishore Bhatia & Associates, Cost Accountants, (Firm 

Registration No. 00294) as Cost Auditors to conduct the audit 

of the cost records of the Company for the financial year ending 
31
st  
March, 2023.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the Companies 

Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors has to be 

ratified by the Member of the Company. Accordingly consent of 
the Members is sought by way of an Ordinary Resolution as set 

at Item no. 6 of the Notice for ratification of the remuneration 
amounting to 
R
 6,60,000/- (Rupees Six Lakhs Sixty thousand 
Only) per annum, plus reimbursement of out of pocket expenses 

as may be incurred during course of audit.
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel (or their 
relatives) are interested in the said resolution.
The Board recommends the resolution for your approval.
By order of the Board
R. J. Saboo
VP (Corporate Affairs) &
Company Secretary
Registered Office
612, Raheja Chambers,

Nariman Point, 
Mumbai 400 021
Date : 29
th
 April, 2022
9
Boards™ Report
The Directors have great pleasure in presenting the 80
th
 Annual Report together with the Audited Financial Statements for the financial 
year ended 31
st
 March, 2022.
(
v
 In Crores)
Particulars
FY 2021-2022
FY 2020-2021
Total Income
7840.51
6383.59
Profit Before Interest, Depreciation & Tax
1309.89
1312.74
Finance Cost
5.15
22.05
Depreciation and Amortization Expenses
229.52
212.78
Profit Before Tax & Exceptional Items
1075.22
1077.91
Tax Expenses
263.33
276.53
Profit After Tax
811.89
801.38
Other Comprehensive Income (Net of Taxes)
(0.94)
(1.30)
Total Comprehensive Income
810.95
800.08
DIVIDEND
R 
in Crores
i)
 
Dividend on 12,70,26,870 Equity Shares of 
R
 2/- each @1200% i.e. 
R
 24/- per share as under:-
 
(Previous year @ 1100% i.e. 
R
 22/- per equity share)
(a)
 
Interim Dividend @ 300% i.e. 
R
 6/- per share (already paid in November 2021)
 76.22
(b) 
 
Final Dividend @ 900% i.e. 
R
 18/- per share
228.65 
r 
304.87 
The Board of Directors of the Company had adopted the Dividend Distribution Policy on 25
th
 January, 2017 in line with the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. The Policy is uploaded on the Company™s website at www.supreme.co.in
OVERVIEW OF THE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
The financial performance highlights for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022, are as follows Œ
The Company sold 393908 MT of Plastic goods and achieved net product turnover of 
R
 7625.24 Crores during the year under review 
against sales of 409109 MT and net product turnover of 
R
 6177.14 crores in the previous year having volume de-growth about 4% 
and product value growth about 23%, respectively.
Total Income and Operating Profit for the year under review amounted to 
R
 7840.51 crores and 
R
 1242.19 crores respectively as 
compared to 
R
 6383.59 crores and 
R
 1284.28 crores, in the previous financial year.
The Profit before Tax and Profit after Tax for the year under review amounted to 
R
 1075.22 crores and 
R
 811.89 crores respectively 
as compared to 
R
 1077.91 crores and 
R
 801.38 crores, in the previous financial year.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The Management™s Discussion and Analysis forms an integral part of this report and gives detail of the overview, industry structure 

and developments, different product groups of the Company, operational performance of its various business segments.
CREDIT RATING
The Company™s financial discipline and prudence is reflected in strong credit rating ascribed by CRISIL as under:-
Total Bank Loan Facilities Rated
R
 1445.90 crores 
Long-Term Rating
CRISIL AA+/Stable (Upgraded from CRISIL AA/Positive)
Short-Term Rating
CRISIL A1+ (Reaffirmed)
R
 200 crore commercial paper
CRISIL A1+ (reaffirmed)
FIXED DEPOSITS
In accordance with the terms and conditions governing the Fixed Deposit Scheme, the Company had exercised the option to repay 

on 1
st
 April, 2014, all the Fixed Deposits with accrued interest as at the end of 31
st
 March, 2014. Accordingly, the Company is not 
having any Fixed Deposit as on 31
st
 March, 2022.
10
DIRECTORS™ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT:
The Board of Directors acknowledge the responsibility for ensuing 
compliances with the provisions of Section 134(3)(c) read with 
Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 in the preparation 
of annual accounts for the year ended on 31
st
 March, 2022 and 
state that:
 
in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable 
accounting standards had been followed and there is no 
material departures from the same;
 
the Directors have selected such accounting policies and 
applied consistently and made judgments and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31
st
 March, 
2022 and of the profit of the Company for the year ended 
on that date;
 
the Directors have taken proper and sufficient care for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of this Act for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and 

other irregularities; 
 
the Directors have prepared the annual accounts on a going 
concern basis;
 
the Directors have laid down internal financial controls to 

be followed by the Company and that such internal financial 
controls are adequate and are operating effectively; and
 
the Directors have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and 
that such systems were adequate and operating effectively;
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company has taken the requisite steps to comply with the 
recommendations concerning Corporate Governance.
A separate statement on Corporate Governance together 
with a certificate from the auditors of the Company regarding 

compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated 
under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 forms part of this Annual Report.
E
NERGY CONSERVATION, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION 
AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNING / OUTGO
Information on conservation of energy, technology absorption, 

foreign exchange earnings and outgo required to be given 
pursuant to Section 134(3) (m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is annexed 
herewith as 
Annexure - I
 to this report.
PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES AND RELATED 
DISCLOSURES
The prescribed particulars of Employees required under Section 
197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014 is annexed herewith as 
Annexure-II
 to 

this Report.
The information required under Section 197(12) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the 

Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014 and forming part of the Boards™ Report 
for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022 is given in the separate 
Annexure of this Report.
The Annual Report excluding the aforesaid Annexure is being 
sent to the Members of the Company in terms with the provision 
of Section 136 of the Companies Act, 2013. Members who 
are interested in obtaining these particulars may write to the 
Company Secretary at the Registered Office of the Company. The 

aforesaid Annexure is also available for inspection by Members at 
the Registered Office of the Company, 21 days before the 80th 
Annual General Meeting and up to the date of the ensuing Annual 

General Meeting during the business hours on working days.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT
The consolidated financial statements of the company & 

its subsidiary & associate which form part of Annual Report 
have been prepared in accordance with section 129(3) of the 
Companies Act, 2013. Further, a statement containing the salient 

features of the Financial Statement of Subsidiary Company & 
Associate Company in the prescribed format AOC-I is annexed 
herewith as 
Annexure - III
 to this Report. The statement also 

provides the details of performance and financial position of the 
Subsidiary Company & Associate Company.
In accordance with Section 136 of the Companies Act, 2013 the 
Audited Financial Statements, including the consolidated financial 
statements & related information of the Company & Audited 
Accounts of its Subsidiary Company are available on the website 

www.supreme.co.in. These documents will also be available for 
inspection during business hours at the registered office of the 
company. Any member desirous of obtaining a copy of the said 

financial statement may write to the Company Secretary at the 
Registered Office of the company.
The Consolidated net profit of the company and its subsidiary 
amounted to 
R
 967.26 crores for the financial year ended 31
st
 
March, 2022 as compared to 
R
 976.59 crores for the previous 
financial year ended 31
st
 March, 2021.
Additional details regarding performance of the Associate 

Company & Subsidiary Company have been mentioned in the 
succeeding paragraphs.
ASSOCIATE COMPANY - SUPREME PETROCHEM 
LIMITED (SPL)
SUPREME PETROCHEM LIMITED
Your company has an investment of 2,89,36,400 no of equity 
shares in the SPL (promoted by your company & R Raheja Group) 
which constitutes 30.78% as at 31
st
 March 2022. 
During the year under review your company received an 

aggregate amount of 
R
 47.74 Crores as dividend including 
R
 11.57 
Crores of interim dividend for the year 2021-22. Net revenue & 

net profit of that company for the year ended 31
st
 March 2022 
was 
R
 5062.80 Crores and 
R
 663.26 Crores as against 
R
 3206.45 
Crores & 
R
 477.49 Crores respectively during previous year.
SPL has undertaken setting up of second line of Extruded 

Polystyrene Board (XPS) with capacity of 100000M
3
 and increasing 
the master batch and Compound capacity by 50000 MTA.
SPL is also implementing mass ABS project with two lines of 70 

KTA each aggregating 140KTA at its complex at village Amdoshi, 
Dist. Raigad, Maharashtra in technical collaboration with Ms. 
Versalis ŒENI Chemicals Group, Italy.
SPL has obtained requisite approvals for its proposed capital 

reduction from existing 
R
 10 per equity share to 
R
 4 per equity 
share and effected the same. Pursuant to the said reduction, your 

company has since received 
R
 17.36 Crores during the current year.
SPL has proposed final dividend of 
R
 14 per share in its board 

meeting held on 27
th
 April 2022 subject to the approval of 
shareholders which would entitle the Company to receive an 
amount of 
R
 40.51 Crores as dividend during the year 2022-23.
11
SUBSIDIARY COMPANY
Onset of the financial year 2021-22 was a pack of mixed 
sentiments wherein on one side entire humanity was recovering 
from the worst pandemic of the century which cut the wings 
of all economy activities. On the other side businesses were 

embracing the new normal and digging out the pathways of 
growth & sustenance. 
The Supreme Industries Overseas FZE has encircled 16th 
years of operation and became instrumental in achieving sales 
turnover of US$ 10.26 Million (inclusive of third-party exports 
in INR) weighing 3685 MT during the financial year 2021-22 

achieving exceptional volume growth of about 44% in plastic 
piping business. The geography of trade is spread over thirty 
plus countries touching GCC, Africa, USA, UK, Europe & Indian-

sub-continent. 
Performance of financial year 2021-22 encompasses all the 
initiatives viz. continuance of business through decades old loyal 

customers, looping in new partners strengthening the current 
distribution network & successfully being awarded high value 
project orders due to its widest range, the total commitment to 

quality & services.
Once again Plexconcil, an export promotion council under 
Ministry of Commerce, Government of India, conferred on 

Supreme excellence in exports awards for PVC pipes & fittings 
for the four consecutive years starting from 2017 to 2021.
Supreme Overseas is aiming to surpass export-sales of US$13.00 
Million during financial year 2022-23 by strengthening current 
network in all directions. Brand promotion initiatives through 
various means likes of international exhibition, expand current 

basket of products & improvement of current range & developing 
new marketing tools will be the instruments of growth for the 
year 2022-23.
MATERIAL SUBSIDIARY
The Board of Directors of the Company had adopted a Policy for 

determining material subsidiary company in line with the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015. The Policy is uploaded on the Company™s website at www.

supreme.co.in. Presently there is no material subsidiary company.
DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
Shri S.J.Taparia, Executive Director (DIN: 00112513) of the 

Company retires by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting in accordance with provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 and the Articles of Association of the Company and being 

eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
Shri Ramanathan Kannan, Non-Executive Independent Director 
at 78th Annual General Meeting was re-appointed for a further 

period of five years from 16
th
 September, 2020 to 15
th
 September, 
2025. He will attain 75 years of age on 23
rd
 September, 2022, 
therefore in compliance with the provisions of Regulation 17(1A) 
of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015, members approval 

is required for continuation of his directorship up to the expiry 
of his term of office i.e. upto 15
th
 September, 2025.
Shri Y P Trivedi, Non-Executive Independent Director™s term 
expired on 16
th
 September, 2021. He was associated with 
Supreme Group for over 35 years. The Company expresses its 
appreciation for valuable contribution made by him during his 
long tenure on the Board of the Company.
Shri B V Bhargava, Non-Executive Independent Director™s 

term expired on 16
th
 September, 2021. He was associated 
with Supreme for over 25 years. The Company expresses its 
appreciation for valuable contribution made by him during his 
long tenure on the Board of the Company.
The Company has received declarations from all the Independent 
Directors of the Company confirming that they meet with the 
criteria of the independence as prescribed both under section 

149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and under Regulation 16 
(1)(b) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, 
none of the Independent Directors are liable to retire by rotation.
KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
Shri M P Taparia, Managing Director, Shri P C Somani, Chief 

Financial Officer and Shri R J Saboo, VP (Corporate Affairs) & 
Company Secretary were appointed as Key Managerial Personnel 
of your Company, in accordance with the provisions of Section 

203 of the Companies Act 2013 and there is no change in the 
same during the year under review.
DISCLOSURES RELATED TO BOARD, COMMITTEES 
AND POLICIES
a.
 
Board Meetings:
 
The Board of Directors met 6 times during the year ended 
31
st
 March, 2022, in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and rules made there under. 

The details thereof are given in the Corporate Governance 
Report.
b.
 
Board Performance Evaluation:
(i)
 
The Board in consultation with Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee has devised criteria for 
performance evaluation of Independent Directors, 
Board/Committees, and other individual Directors 

which includes criteria for performance evaluation 
of Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors. 
Performance evaluation has been carried out as per 
the Nomination & Remuneration Policy.
 
Pursuant to amendment in section 178 by the 

Companies (Amendment) Act, 2017, which is effective 
from 7
th
 May, 2018, the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee noted the amendment and decided to 
carryout evaluation of performance of Board, its 
Committees and individual Director. Accordingly 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee conducted 
the performance evaluation of Board, its Committees 
and individual Director in its meeting held on 
 
22
nd
 January, 2022.
 
The performance evaluation of the Independent 

Directors was also carried by the entire Board. The 
performance evaluation of the Chairman, Managing 
Director & Executive Directors was carried out by the 
independent Directors at its separate meeting held on 
24
th
 January, 2022.
 
The Board has, on the recommendation, of the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee, framed 
a Nomination & Remuneration policy and Policy 

on fixation of criteria for selection & appointment, 
removal of Directors & Senior Management Personnel. 

The Nomination & Remuneration Policy and Policy 
on fixation of criteria for selection & appointment of 
12
Directors & Senior Management Personnel are annexed 
herewith as 
Annexure IV (A)
 & 
Annexure IV (B)
 to this 
Report.
AUDITORS
Statutory Auditors:-
The Statutory Auditors M/S Lodha & Co., Chartered Accountants 
having Registration No 301051E, was re-appointed in 79
th
 Annual 
General Meeting to hold office from the conclusion of 79
th
 Annual 
General Meeting for a term of consecutive five years till conclusion 

of 84
th
 Annual General Meeting. 
The Statutory Auditors have given a confirmation that they are 

eligible to continue with their appointment and that they have 
not been disqualified in any manner from continuing as Statutory 

Auditors. 
AUDITORS™ REPORT
Note on financial statement referred in the Auditor™s Report are 

self-explanatory and do not call for any further comments. The 
Auditor™s Report does not contain any qualification, reservation 
or adverse remark.
COST AUDITORS
In terms of the provisions of Section 148 of the Act read with the 

Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014 as amended 
from time to time, the Board of Directors, on the recommendation 
of the Audit Committee, has appointed M/s. Kishore Bhatia & 

Associates, Cost Accountants (Registration No: 00294) as Cost 
Auditor of the Company, for the financial year ending 31
st
 March 
2023, on a remuneration as mentioned in the Notice convening 

the 80
th
 Annual General Meeting for conducting the audit of the 
cost records maintained by the Company.
A Certificate from M/s. Kishore Bhatia & Associates, Cost 
Accountants has been received to the effect that their appointment 
as Cost Auditor of the Company, if made, would be in accordance 

with the limits specified under Section 141 of the Act and Rules 
framed thereunder.
A resolution seeking Members™ approval for remuneration payable 
to Cost Auditors forms part of the Notice of the 80th Annual 
General Meeting of the Company and same is recommended 
for your consideration.
Cost Audit Report for the year ended 31
st
 March 2021 was filed with 
the Registrar of Companies, within the prescribed time limit and 
for the year ended 31
st
 March 2022 the same shall be filed within 
prescribed time after completion of Cost Audit by Cost Auditors.
The Company has made and maintained requisite Cost accounts 
and records as required to be maintained as specified by the 
Central Government under sub-section (1) of section 148 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT FOR THE YEAR 
ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2022
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Companies Act, 
2013 and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the Board has appointed 
M/s V. Laxman & Co., Company Secretaries (C.P No. 744), to 

conduct Secretarial Audit for the financial year ended on 31st 
March, 2022.
Secretarial Audit Report for the financial year ended 31st March, 
2022 issued by M/s. V. Laxman & Co, Company Secretaries in 
Form MR-3 forms part to this report 
Annexure V.
 The said report 
does not contain any observation or qualification requiring 
explanation or adverse remark.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The details pertaining to composition of the Audit Committee 

and terms of reference are included in the Corporate Governance 
Report, which forms part of this Report.
REPORTING OF FRAUDS
There was an instance of embezzlement by group of employees 
involving an aggregate amount of 
R
 17.42 lakhs at company™s 
manufacturing unit at Gadegaon. The company has recovered 

entire amount and all the employees/ associates who were 

involved in embezzlement have been expelled from service.
MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENT AFFECTING 
FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE COMPANY
There are no other material changes or commitments occurring 
after 31
st
 March 2022, which may affect the financial position of 
the company or may require disclosure.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS
The company has in place Internal Financial Control system, 

commensurate with size & complexity of its operations to ensure 
proper recording of financial and operational information & 
compliance of various internal controls & other regulatory & 

statutory compliances. During the year under review, no material 
or serious observation has been received from the Internal Auditors 
of the Company for inefficiency or inadequacy of such controls.
Internal Auditors™ comprising of professional Chartered 

Accountants monitor & evaluate the efficacy of Internal Financial 
Control system in the company, its compliance with operating 
system, accounting procedures & policies at all the locations of 

the company. Based on their report of Internal Audit function, 
corrective actions in the respective area are undertaken & controls 
are strengthened. Significant audit observations & corrective 

action suggested are presented to the Audit Committee.
PARTICULAR OF CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENT 
WITH RELATED PARTIES
All the transactions with Related Parties are placed before the 
Audit Committee as also placed before the Board for approval. 
Prior omnibus approval of the Audit Committee and the Board is 
obtained for the transactions which are of a foreseen and repetitive 

nature. The transactions entered into pursuant to the omnibus 
approval so granted are audited and a statement giving details of 
all related party transactions is placed before the Audit Committee 

and the Board of Directors for their approval on a quarterly basis.
All transactions entered into with related parties during the year 

were on arm™s length basis, in the ordinary course of business and 
in line with the threshold of materiality defined in the Company™s 
policy on Related Party Transactions & are in accordance with the 

provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, Rules issued thereunder 
& Regulation 23 of (SEBI Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015. During the financial year 

ended on 31
st
 March, 2022, there were no transactions with 
related parties which qualify as material transactions.
The details of the related party transactions are set out in Note 
40 to the standalone financial statements forming part of this 
Annual Report.
13
The Form AOC-2 pursuant to section 134(3)(h) of the Companies 
Act read with Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 
is set out as 
Annexure VI
 to this Report.
The Policy on Related Party Transactions as approved by the 
Board is also uploaded on the Company™s website at the Link: 
www.supreme.co.in
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES, 
INVESTMENTS AND SECURITIES
The company has complied with the provisions of section 185 & 
186 of the Act to the extent applicable, with respect to the loans 
and investments made.
VIGIL MECHANISM POLICY FOR THE DIRECTORS 
AND EMPLOYEES
A ﬁVigil Mechanism Policyﬂ for Directors and employees of the 
Company is constituted, to provide a mechanism which ensures 
adequate safeguards to employees and Directors from any 
victimization on raising of concerns by them of any violations of 

legal or regulatory requirements, incorrect or misrepresentation 
of any, financial statements and reports, etc.
RISK MANAGEMENT POLICY
Your Company has an elaborate risk Management procedure 
and adopted a systematic approach to mitigate risk associated 
with accomplishment of objectives, operations, revenues and 
regulations. Your Company believes that this would ensure 

mitigating steps proactively and help to achieve stated objectives. 
The entity™s objectives can be viewed in the context of four 
categories Strategic, Operations, Reporting and Compliance. The 

Company consider activities at all levels of the organization, viz 
Enterprise level, Division level, Business unit level and Subsidiary 
level, in Risk Management framework. The Risk Management 

process of the Company focuses on three elements, viz. (1) Risk 
Assessment; (2) Risk Management; (3) Risk Monitoring.
A Risk Management Committee is constituted which has 
been entrusted with the responsibility to assist the Board in 

(a) Overseeing and approving the Company™s enterprise risk 
management framework; and (b) Overseeing that all the risk that 
the organization faces.
The key risks and mitigating actions are also placed before 
the Audit Committee of the Company. Significant audit 
observations and follow up actions thereon are reported to the 

Audit Committee. The Audit Committee reviews adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Company™s internal control environment 
and monitors the implementation of audit recommendations, 

including those relating to strengthening of the Company™s risk 
management policies and systems.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY
The brief outline of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
Policy of the company and the initiatives undertaken by the 
company on CSR activities during the year are set out in Annexure 
of this Report in the format prescribed in the Companies 

(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules 2014. 
Annexure 
VII (A) & (B)
.
The Policy is available on the website of the Company i.e. 
 
www.supreme.co.in. 
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTANIBILITY REPORT
Company decided to voluntary publish Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report (BRSR) for the FY 2021-22. The BRSR 
as approved by the Business Responsibility and Sustainability 

Committee and Board of Directors forms part of this Annual 

Report.
DISCLOSURE AS PER THE SEXUAL HARASSMENT 
OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, 

PROHIBITION AND REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013
The Company has zero tolerance towards sexual harassment 
at the workplace and have a policy on prevention, prohibition 
and redressal of sexual harassment at workplace in line with the 
provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 

(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and the Rules 
thereunder. As required under law, an Internal Complaints 
Committee has been constituted for reporting and conducting 

inquiry into the complaints made by the victim on the harassments 
at the work place. During the year under review, there were no 
cases filed pursuant to the Sexual Harassment of Women at 

Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
ANNUAL RETURN:
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 134(3)(a) and Section 92(3) 

of the Act read with Rule 12 of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014, the extract of the Annual Return of 
the Company for the Financial Year 31
st
 March, 2022 is uploaded 
on the website of the Company and can be accessed at www.
supreme.co.in.
GENERAL DISCLOSURE
Your Directors state that no disclosure or reporting is required in 
respect of the following items as there were no transactions on 
these items during the year under review:
1.
 
Details relating to deposits covered under Chapter V of the Act.
2.
 
Issue of equity shares with differential rights as to dividend, 
voting or otherwise.
3.
 
Issue of shares (sweat equity shares) to employees of the 

Company under ESOS.
4.
 
Neither the Managing Director nor the Whole Time Directors 

of the Company received any remuneration or commission 
from its subsidiary.
5.
 
No significant or material orders were passed by the Regulators 

or Courts or Tribunals which impact the going concern status 
and Company™s operations in future.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The Board of Directors wishes to express its gratitude and record 
its sincere appreciation for the commitment and dedicated efforts 
put in by all the employees at all the levels during this challenging 
time. Your Directors take this opportunity to express their grateful 

appreciation for the encouragement, co-operation and support 
received by the Company from the local authorities, bankers, 
customers, suppliers and business associates. The directors are 

thankful to the esteemed shareholders for their continued support 
and the confidence reposed in the Company and its management.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
B. L. Taparia
 
Chairman
Place: Mumbai
 
Date: 29
th
 April, 2022
14
ANNEXURE - I
Annexure to the Boards™ Report
Information as required under Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
1.
 
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY
 
The Company is committed to transform energy conservation 
into a strategic business goal fully align with the technological 
sustainable development of Energy Management System. 
Company is putting best endeavour to reduce energy 

consumption in its manufacturing cycle activities. Company 
is also committed to improve energy efficiency in all 
manufacturing process and other areas of operations. The 

manufacturing units of the Company have continued their 
efforts to reduce their energy consumption year on year basis.
 
To achieve above objectives the following steps are being 
undertaken by the Company:-
1
 
Efficient utilization of Grid energy by continuously 
monitoring the Key parameters viz Contract demand, 
Power factor, Load factor & TOD tariff utilization on 

regular basis.
2
 
Encouraging use of advance engineering technologies in 
unit old plants for energy efficiency improvement & all 
new projects equipment™s with superior technology.
3
 
Replacement of existing lights with LED Light.
4
 
Substitution of fossil fuel by PNG /LPG in manufacturing 
activity to reduce carbon intensity.
5
 
Optimization of D.G Running hours by express power 
feeder at Kanpur, Talegaon & also working on express 
feeder at Khopoli, Urse.
6
 
Detail Technical energy audit conducted at energy 
intensive units at Gadegaon, Kharagpur, Malanpur 
(PVC) Plant to identify the further scope of energy 
improvement.
7
 
To monitor the continuous energy performance of Energy 

intensive units ISO-50001 Energy management system 
in implementation stage at six locations Pondy, Jalgaon, 
Gadegaon, Durgapur, Kharagpur & Malanpur PVC. 

Noida plant is ISO50001 EnMS Certified.
8
 
Increase the use of renewable Energy by 30.41% in unit 

at all plants by own Roof Top solar & Procuring the clean 
energy through different energy sources wind/solar at 
PAN India location which was constituting_10.04% in 

2020-21 and increased to 12.37% in 2021-22.
9
 
Reduce Greenhouse Gas emission by 3.75% & avoided 
emission is increased by 36.35% (Base Year 2019-20).
10
 
Roof top solar capacity of organization is almost double 
from 8.61 Mwp (20-21) to 17.09 Mwp FY(21-22)
i.e. increase of 8.480 Mwp which are successfully 
commissioned at various units.
  
Further commissioning of 6.22 Mwp Roof Top Solar Power 

is in progress and shall be operational in April/ May 2022.
11
 
Being responsible corporate citizen and eco-friendly 

environment, company replace asbestos roof sheet with 
metallic sheet at various location at PAN India.
 
 
Wind Energy:-
 
During the FY 2021-22 Wind Energy supply started at our 
Halol- Muvala Plant, Gujarat. During this FY, 102.84 Lakh 
wind units consumed by different units PAN India which is 
3.85% of our total energy consumption.
 
Group Captive:-
 
During the FY 2021-22 company had signed PPA of 3.5 Mwp 

Group Captive Solar Power which is likely to be operational 
by September 2022. 
 
Hybrid Power:-
 
During the FY 2021-22 company had signed PPA of 70 
Lakh Hybrid Units PA for its both units located at Halol-XF 
& Halol-Muvala, Gujarat.
2.
 
TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION, ADAPTION AND 
 
 
INNOVATION
A.
 
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (R&D)
 
On-going study in the following areas to reduce cost of 
conservation and improve the quality.







reduce the cost of raw material.

finished products from per kg. Raw material.

through corporate management and recycling the product 

by using good waste management process.

get higher production from the same machine.



B.
 
TECHNOLOGY ADAPTION & INNOVATION
 
The company is the trend setters in plastic piping segment 
and claim to be a total piping solution provider with more 
than 9000 products in the range. Company is continuously 

adding many unique, innovative and path breaking products 
to cater to the various application requirements. As and when 
required the company is seeking the technical assistance 

from the experts in the field to offer the technologically 
advance and superior products to the market. Few of the 
products innovated/developed are:
(i)
 
Solvent Cements, Primer, Rubber Lubricants and Thread 
Sealants
(ii)
 
Raingain Œ Rainwater Filters
(iii)
 
Fix-O Rubber Rings
(iv)
 
Underground Tanks
(v)
 
Underground Drainage and Sewer System (UDSS)
(vi)
 
Packaged Sewage Treatment Plants (STPﬂS)
 
Technology:
 Anaerobic followed by aeration process 
 
Efforts made towards Technology Absorption: 
 
The company has done a tie-up with one of the leading 
environment consultant in the field to get the expertise in 

product designing. This technology is initially introduced and 
used in Japan for big size sewage treatment projects which 
company has now converted in DAFF media for compact 

and smaller size STP™s.
 
Benefits:
1.
 
Ready to use, readymade solution which eliminates the 
need of tank construction
15
2.
 
Intelligent combination of anaerobic and aerobic 
treatment
3.
 
Excellent effluent quality Œ Meets SPCB/CPCB 
requirements
4.
 
Hygienic and safe operation
5.
 
70% reduction in O & M cost compared to conventional 
STPs.
6.
 
Easy and fast installation to save lot on the time, labour 
and cost 
7.
 
Cost effective
3.
 
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO
Particulars
v
 in Crores
Foreign Exchange Earned
310.24
Foreign Exchange Used
1329.36 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
B. L. Taparia
 
Chairman
Place: Mumbai
 
Date: 29
th
 April, 2022
16
ANNEXURE - II
Annexure to the Boards™ Report
Particulars of employees pursuant to Section 134(3) (q) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
Sr. No.
Requirement under Rule 5(1)
Details
1.
Ratio of the remuneration of Managing Director, Executive 
Directors & other Non-Executive Directors to the median 

remuneration of the Company for the Financial Year
Shri M. P. Taparia, Managing Director 
 
: 450.92
Shri S. J. Taparia, Executive Director 
 
: 457.40
Shri V. K. Taparia, Executive Director 
 
: 452.10
Shri B.L. Taparia
 
: 4.86
Shri B.V. Bhargava
 
: 2.54
Shri Y.P. Trivedi
 
: 3.42
Shri R. Kannan
 
: 6.47
Shri Rajeev M Pandia
 
: 7.65
Shri Sarthak Bahuria
 
: 5.59
Ms Ameeta Parpia
 
: 7.36
2.
Percentage increase in remuneration of Managing Director, 
each Executive Director, Chief Financial Officer, & Company 

Secretary (Salary of 2021-2022 vis-à-vis 2020-2021
Shri M. P. Taparia, Managing Director 
 
: 5.25% 
Shri S. J. Taparia, Executive Director 
 
: 6.30%
Shri V. K. Taparia, Executive Director 
 
: 5.56%
Shri P. C. Somani, CFO
 
: 22.09% 
Shri R. J. Saboo, Company Secretary 
 
: 18.97%
3.
Percentage increase in the median remuneration of 

employees in the financial year (2021-2022 vis-à-vis 2020-

2021)
Median Increase : 6.82%
4.
Number of Employees as on 31
st
 March, 2022 on rolls of 
Company
5228
5
* Average percentile increase made in the salaries of 

employees other than the managerial personnel in last 

financial year and its comparison with the percentile increase 
in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof 
and point out if there are any exceptional circumstances 

for increase in the managerial remuneration:
10.43%
* Justification for variation in the average percentile increase 

between Non Managerial employees and Managerial 

employees
The increase in the managerial remuneration was as per the 

Industry benchmarks.
6
Key parameters for any variable component of remuneration 

availed by the Directors.
Commission: 1% of the net profits of the year as approved by 

the members at the AGM held on 29
th
 June 2018.
7.
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration 
policy of the Company
Remuneration is as per the Nomination and Remuneration 

Policy of the Company.
8.
Percentage increase or decrease in the market quotations 
of the shares of the Company
The closing price of the Company™s Equity Share on the NSE 

and BSE as of 31
st
 March, 2022 was 
R
 2047.20 and 
R
 2043.25 
respectively.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
B. L. Taparia
 
Chairman
Place: Mumbai
 
Date: 29
th
 April, 2022
17
ANNEXURE - III
Annexure to the Boards™ Report
FORM AOC-I
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 129 read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiary / associate company
Part A Subsidiary
(
R
 in Crores)
No.
Name of the 
Subsidiary 
Company
Reporting 
Currency
Exchange 
Rate as on 
31
st
 March, 
2022
Capital
Reserves
Total 
Assets
Total 
Liabilities
Investments
Turnover
Profit/
(Loss) 
Before 
Tax
Provision 
For Tax
Profit 
(Loss)
Proposed 
Dividend
% of 
holding
1
The Supreme 
Industries 
Overseas 
(FZE)
AED
20.64
0.19
2.20
3.39
3.39
NIL
1.56
-0.10
NIL
-0.10
NIL
100
Part B Associate
Statement pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013, related to Associate Company
Supreme Petrochem Limited
(
R
 in Crores)
Sr. 
No.
Name of 
Associate
Latest 
Audited 
Balance 
Sheet Date
Shares of Associate
Description of how 
there is significant 
influence
Reason why 
the associate 
is not 
consolidated
Net worth 
attributable to 
shareholding as 
per latest audited 
Balance Sheet
Profit / Loss for the year
Nos.
Amount of 
investment in 
Associate
Extend of 
Holding 
%
Considered in 
Consolidation
Not 
considered in 
Consolidation
1
Supreme 
Petrochem 
Ltd.
31
st
 March, 
2022
28936400
16.02
30.78
There is significant 
influence due to 
(%) of share capital
N.A.
470.22
204.39
458.87
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
B. L. Taparia
 
Chairman
Place: Mumbai
 
Date: 29
th
 April, 2022
18
ANNEXURE - IV (A)
Annexure to the Boards™ Report
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION POLICY
I.
 
PREAMBLE
Pursuant to Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Regulation 19 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 [erstwhile Clause 49 of the 
Listing Agreement with the Stock Exchanges], the Board of 

Directors of every listed Company shall constitute the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee. The Company already constituted 
Remuneration Committee comprising of three non-executive 

Independent Directors.
II.
 
OBJECTIVE
The Key Objectives of the Committee would be:
a)
 
To guide the Board in relation to appointment and 
removal of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Senior 
Management.
b)
 
To evaluate the performance of the members of the Board 
and provide necessary report to the Board for further 
evaluation.
c)
 
To recommend to the Board on Remuneration payable 

to the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Senior 
Management.
III.
 
DEFINITIONS
ﬁBoardﬂ
 means Board of Directors of the Company.
ﬁCompanyﬂ
 means ﬁThe Supreme Industries Limited.ﬂ
ﬁEmployeesﬂ
 Stock Option means the option given to 

the directors, officers or employees of a company or of its 
holding company or subsidiary company or companies, if 
any, which gives such directors, officers or employees, the 

benefit or right to purchase, or to subscribe for, the shares 
of the company at a future date at a pre-determined price.
ﬁIndependent Directorﬂ
 means a director referred to in 
Section 149 (6) of the Companies Act, 2013.
ﬁKey Managerial Personnelﬂ
 (KMP) means
(i)
 
Chief Executive Officer or the Managing Director or 

the Manager,
(ii)
 
Chief Financial Officer,
(iii)
 
Company Secretary and
(iv)
 
Such other officer as may be prescribed.
ﬁNomination and Remuneration Committeeﬂ
 shall 
mean a Committee of Board of Directors of the Company, 
constituted in accordance with the provisions of Section 
178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 19 of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations.
ﬁPolicy or This Policyﬂ
 means, 
ﬁNomination and 
Remuneration Policy.ﬂ
ﬁRemunerationﬂ
 means any money or its equivalent given 
or passed to any person for services rendered by him and 
includes perquisites as defined under the Income-tax Act, 
1961. 
ﬁSenior Managementﬂ
 means personnel of the Company 
who are members of its core management team excluding 
Board of Directors. This would include all members of 
management one level below the executive directors, 

including all the functional heads.
IV.
 
INTERPRETATION
Terms that have not been defined in this Policy shall have the 
same meaning assigned to them in the Companies Act, 2013, and/
or any other SEBI Regulation(s) as amended from time to time.
V.
 
GUIDING PRINCIPLES
The Policy ensures that

and sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Directors of the 
quality required to run the Company successfully

meets appropriate performance benchmarks and



Senior Management involves a balance between fixed and 
incentive pay reflecting short and long term performance 
objectives appropriate to the working of the Company and 
its goals.
VI.
 
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE
The role of the Committee inter alia will be the following:
a.
 
To formulate a criteria for determining qualifications, positive 
attributes and independence of a Director.
b.
 
Formulate criteria for evaluation of Independent Directors 

and the Board.
c.
 
Identify persons who are qualified to become Directors 
and who may be appointed in Senior Management in 
accordance with the criteria laid down in this policy.
d.
 
To carry out evaluation of every Director™s performance.
e.
 
To recommend to the Board the appointment and removal 

of Directors and Senior Management.
f.
 
To recommend to the Board policy relating to remuneration 
for Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Senior 
Management.
g.
 
Ensure that level and composition of remuneration is 
reasonable and sufficient, relationship of remuneration to 
performance is clear and meets appropriate performance 

benchmarks.
h.
 
To devise a policy on Board diversity.
i.
 
To carry out any other function as is mandated by the 
Board from time to time and / or enforced by any statutory 
notification, amendment or modification, as may be 

applicable.
j.
 
To perform such other functions as may be necessary or 
appropriate for the performance of its duties. 
VII.
 
MEMBERSHIP
a)
 
The Committee shall comprise at least three (3) Directors, 
all of whom shall be non-executive Directors and at least 
half shall be Independent.
b)
 
The Board shall reconstitute the Committee as and when 
required to comply with the provisions of the Companies 

Act, 2013 and applicable statutory requirement.
19
c)
 
Minimum two (2) members shall constitute a quorum for 
the Committee meeting.
d)
 
Membership of the Committee shall be disclosed in the 
Annual Report.
e)
 
Term of the Committee shall be continued unless terminated 
by the Board of Directors.
VI
II
. 
CHAIRMAN
a)
 
Chairman of the Committee shall be an Independent 

Director.
b)
 
Chairperson of the Company may be appointed as a member 
of the Committee but shall not Chair the Committee.
c)
 
In the absence of the Chairman, the members of the 

Committee present at the meeting shall choose one amongst 
them to act as Chairman.
d)
 
Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
could be present at the Annual General Meeting or may 

nominate some other member to answer the shareholders™ 
queries.
IX.
 
FREQUENCY OF MEETINGS
The meeting of the Committee shall be held at such regular 
intervals as may be required.
X.
 
COMMITTEE MEMBERS™ INTERESTS
a)
 
A member of the Committee is not entitled to be present 
when his or her own remuneration is discussed at a meeting 
or when his or her performance is being evaluated.
b)
 
The Committee may invite such executives, as it considers 
appropriate, to be present at the meetings of the Committee.
XI.
 
SECRETARY
The Company Secretary of the Company shall act as Secretary 
of the Committee.
XII.
 
VOTING
a)
 
Matters arising for determination at Committee meetings 
shall be decided by a majority of votes of Members present 
and voting and any such decision shall for all purposes be 
deemed a decision of the Committee.
b)
 
In the case of equality of votes, the Chairman of the meeting 

will have a casting vote.
XI
I
I.
 
 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTOR, 
 
 
 KMP AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT

1.
 
The Committee shall identify and ascertain the 

integrity, qualification, expertise and experience of the 

person for appointment as Director, KMP or at Senior 
Management level and recommend to the Board his / 

her appointment. 
2.
 
A person should possess adequate qualification, 
expertise and experience for the position he / she 
is considered for appointment. The Committee has 

discretion to decide whether qualification, expertise 

and experience possessed by a person are sufficient / 
satisfactory for the concerned position.
3.
 
The Company shall not appoint or continue the 
employment of any person as Managing Director/
Whole- time Director / Manager who has attained 
the age of seventy years. Provided that the term of 
the person holding this position may be extended 

beyond the age of seventy years with the approval of 

shareholders by passing a special resolution based on 
the explanatory statement annexed to the notice for 

such motion indicating the justification for extension 
of appointment beyond seventy years.


1.
 
Managing Director/Whole-time Director / Manager 
(Managerial Person):
Œ
 
The Company shall appoint or re-appoint any 
person as its Managerial Person for a term not 

exceeding five years at a time. No re-appointment 

shall be made earlier than one year before the 
expiry of term.
 
2.
 
Independent Director:
Œ
 
An Independent Director shall hold office for a 
term up to five consecutive years on the Board 
of the Company and will be eligible for re-
appointment on passing of a special resolution by 
the Company and disclosure of such appointment 
in the Board™s report.
Œ
 
No Independent Director shall hold office for more 
than two consecutive terms, but such Independent 
Director shall be eligible for appointment after 

expiry of three years of ceasing to become 
an Independent Director. Provided that an 
Independent Director shall not, during the said 
period of three years, be appointed in or be 
associated with the Company in any other capacity, 

either directly or indirectly. However, if a person 
who has already served as an Independent 
Director for 5 years or more in the Company 
as on 1
st
 October, 2014 or such other date as 
may be determined by the Committee as per 

regulatory requirement, he / she shall be eligible 
for appointment for one more term of 5 years only.
Œ
 
At the time of appointment of Independent 

Director it should be ensured that number of 
Boards on which such Independent Director 
serves is restricted to seven listed companies as an 
Independent Director and three listed companies 
as an Independent Director in case such person 

is serving as a Whole- time Director of a listed 
company.

 
The Committee shall carry out evaluation of performance 
of every Director, KMP and Senior Management at regular 
interval (yearly).

 
Due to reasons for any disqualification mentioned in the 
Companies Act, 2013, rules made thereunder or under any 
other applicable Act, rules and regulations, the Committee 
may recommend, to the Board with reasons recorded in 
writing, removal of a Director, KMP or Senior Management 
subject to the provisions and compliance of the said Act, 

rules and regulations.

 
The Director, KMP and Senior Management shall retire as 
per the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
and the prevailing policy of the Company. The Board will 
have the discretion to retain the Director, KMP, Senior 

Management in the same position / remuneration or 
otherwise even after attaining the retirement age, for the 

benefit of the Company.
20
XI
V
.
 
PROVISIONS RELATING TO REMUNERATION 
 
 
OF MANAGERIAL PERSON, KMP AND SENIOR 
 
 
MANAGEMENT

1.
 
The remuneration / compensation / commission etc. 
to Managerial Person, KMP and Senior Management 
Personnel will be determined by the Committee 

and recommended to the Board for approval. The 
remuneration / compensation / commission etc. shall 
be subject to the prior/post approval of the shareholders 
of the Company and Central Government, wherever 
required.
2.
 
The remuneration and commission to be paid to 
Managerial Person shall be as per the statutory 

provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, and the rules 
made there under for the time being in force.
3.
 
Increments to the existing remuneration / compensation 

structure may be recommended by the Committee to 
the Board which should be within the slabs approved 
by the Shareholders in the case of Managerial Person.
4.
 
Where any insurance is taken by the Company on 

behalf of its Managerial Person, KMP and any other 
employees for indemnifying them against any liability, 
the premium paid on such insurance shall not be 
treated as part of the remuneration payable to any 
such personnel. Provided that if such person is proved 
to be guilty, the premium paid on such insurance shall 
be treated as part of the remuneration.





Management:
1.
 
Fixed pay:
 
Managerial Person, KMP and Senior Management 
shall be eligible for a monthly remuneration as may be 

approved by the Board on the recommendation of the 
Committee in accordance with the statutory provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013, and the rules made there 
under for the time being in force. The break-up of 
the pay scale and quantum of perquisites including, 
employer™s contribution to P.F, pension scheme, 
medical expenses, club fees etc. shall be decided and 
approved by the Board on the recommendation of 
the Committee and approved by the shareholders and 
Central Government, wherever required.
2.
 
Minimum Remuneration:
 
If, in any financial year, the Company has no profits 

or its profits are inadequate, the Company shall pay 
remuneration to its Managerial Person in accordance 

with the provisions of Schedule V of the Companies Act, 

2013 and if it is not able to comply with such provisions, 
with the prior approval of the Central Government.
3.
 
Provisions for excess remuneration:
 
If any Managerial Person draws or receives, directly or 
indirectly by way of remuneration any such sums in 

excess of the limits prescribed under the Companies 
Act, 2013 or without the prior sanction of the Central 
Government, where required, he / she shall refund such 
sums to the Company and until such sum is refunded, 
hold it in trust for the Company. The Company shall 
not waive recovery of such sum refundable to it unless 

permitted by the Central Government

1.
 
Remuneration / Commission:
 
The remuneration / commission shall be in accordance 
with the statutory provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013, and the rules made there under for the time 

being in force.
2.
 
Sitting Fees:
 
The Non- Executive / Independent Director may receive 
remuneration by way of fees for attending meetings of 
Board or Committee thereof. Provided that the amount 

of such fees shall not exceed the maximum amount as 
provided in the Companies Act, 2013, per meeting of 
the Board or Committee or such amount as may be 
prescribed by the Central Government from time to 
time.
3.
 
Limit of Remuneration /Commission:
 
Remuneration /Commission may be paid within the 

monetary limit approved by shareholders, subject to 
the limit not exceeding 1% of the net profits of the 
Company computed as per the applicable provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013.
4.
 
Stock Options:
 
An Independent Director shall not be entitled to any 

stock option of the Company.
XV.
 
MINUTES OF COMMITTEE MEETING
Proceedings of all meetings must be minuted and signed by 
the Chairman of the said meeting or the Chairman of the next 
succeeding meeting. Minutes of the Committee meeting will be 
tabled at the subsequent Board and Committee meeting.
XV
I
. 
DEVIATIONS FROM THIS POLICY
Deviations on elements of this policy in extraordinary 

circumstances, when deemed necessary in the interests of the 
Company, will be made if there are specific reasons to do so in 
an individual case.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
B. L. Taparia
 
Chairman
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29
th
 April, 2022
21
ANNEXURE - IV (B)
Annexure to the Boards™ Report
CRITERIA FOR :
1. SELECTION OF DIRECTORS AND 2. SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
Pursuant to Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 19 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 [erstwhile Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement with the Stock Exchanges] requires the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee to consider and lay down criteria for identification of persons who are qualified to become directors and who may be 
appointed in senior management in accordance with the criteria laid down, and recommend to the Board their appointment and 

removal.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF DIRECTORS
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall consider the following for identifying and recommending persons for appointment 

as Directors on the Board of the Company:
1.
 
The candidate™s qualifications, knowledge, skills and experience in his/her respective field.
2.
 
His/her reputation of honesty, integrity, ethical behaviour and leadership.
3.
 
Achievements in industry, business, profession and / or social work.
4.
 
Possesses appropriate skills, experience and knowledge in one or more fields such as finance, law, management, sales, marketing, 
administration, research, corporate governance and such other areas that are relevant to the Company™s business.
5.
 
Whether the candidate is free from any disqualification provided under Section 164 of the Companies Act, 2013.
6.
 
Whether the candidate meets the conditions of being independent as stipulated under Companies Act, 2013 in case of appointment 

as Independent Director.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
The term Senior Management Personnel shall have the same meaning as provided in the explanation under Section 178 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
The Committee shall before making any recommendation to the Board for appointment considers the following:
1)
 
The candidate™s qualifications and experience in the field / area for which he/she is being considered.
2)
 
Candidate™s reputation of honesty, integrity and ethical behaviour in past assignments.
3)
 
Leadership skills, decision making skills, effective communication, ability to build team, foster team spirit and ability to work 
sincerely with dedication.
4)
 
Past record in goal setting, developing strategy, devising a tactical road map and in motivating team members to overcome 
challenges and meet set goals.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
B. L. Taparia
 
Chairman
Place: Mumbai
 
Date: 29
th
 April, 2022
22
ANNEXURE - V
Annexure to the Boards™ Report
F
ORM
 N
O
. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
 
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31
st
 MARCH, 2022
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies 
 
(Appointment and Remuneration Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
 
The Members,
 
THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED,
 
612 Raheja Chambers,
 
Nariman Point,
 
Mumbai Œ 400 021
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate 
practices by 
The Supreme Industries Limited 
(hereinafter called 
ﬁthe Companyﬂ
). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner 
that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company™s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the 
conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the financial 
year ended on 31
st
 March, 2022 complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper 
Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for the 
financial year ended on 31
st
 March, 2022 according to the provisions of:
(i) 
 
The Companies Act, 2013 (ﬁthe Actﬂ) and the rules made thereunder;
(ii) 
 
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‚SCRA™) and the rules made thereunder; 
(iii) 
 
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder; 
(iv)
 
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings; 
(v) 
 
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‚SEBI Act™):-
(a) 
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 
(b) 
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
(c) 
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 [Not applicable 
to the Company during the audit period];
(d) 
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme) 

Guidelines, 1999 [Not applicable to the Company during the audit period];
(e) 
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 [Not applicable to the 
Company during the audit period];
(f) 
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding 

the Companies Act and dealing with client.
(g) 
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009 [Not applicable to the Company 

during the audit period]; and
(h) 
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998 [Not applicable to the Company 
during the audit period];
(vi)
 
The Company has identified the laws specifically applicable to the Company:
 (a) 
 
Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974;
 (b) 
 
The Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1981;
 (c) 
 
The Legal Metrology Act, 2009.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:
(i) 
 
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
(ii) 
 
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
During the period under review, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, 
etc. mentioned above.
23
We further report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and 
Independent Directors. In view of completion of their term as Independent Directors, Mr. Y.P. Trivedi and Mr. Bhupendra Bhargav 
have ceased to be the Directors of the Company with effect from 16
th
 September, 2021 and no other Directors were appointed, 
and as such there has been a change in the composition of the Board of Directors of the Company during the period under review. 
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at least 
seven days in advance, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before 
the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
All decisions at Board Meetings and Committee Meetings are carried out unanimously as recorded in the minutes of the meetings of 
the Board of Directors or Committees of the Board, as the case may be.
We further report that 
there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of 
the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
For 
V. L
AXMAN
 & C
O
.
,
 
Date : 25
th
 April, 2022 
V. L
AXMAN
Place : Mumbai
UDIN N
O
. : 
F001513D000200536
Company Secretary
FCS: 1513 CP 744
This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is attached as Annexure ™A™ and forms an integral part of this Report.
ANNEXURE ‚A™
To,
The Members,

The Supreme Industries Limited,

612 Raheja Chambers,

Nariman Point,

Mumbai Œ 400 021
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1. 
 
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2. 
 
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 

of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected 
in 
secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices we followed proved a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3. 
 
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Account of the Company.
4. 
 
Where ever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations 

and happening of events etc.
5. 
 
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 

management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6. 
 
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
Place : Mumbai
Date : 25
th
 April, 2022 
UDIN N
O
. : 
F001513D000200536
For and on behalf of 
 
V. Laxman & Co.,
 
Company Secretaries
(V. Laxman)
 
FCS No. 1513
 
C P No. : 744
24
ANNEXURE - VI
Annexure to the Boards™ Report
FORM NO. AOC-2
(Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts / arrangements entered in to by the Company with related parties referred to in sub-
section (1) of section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arms length transactions under third proviso thereto:
1.
 
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm™s length basis::
(a)
Name(s) of the 
related party 
and nature of 
relationship
(b)
Nature of 

contracts
/arrangements 
/ transactions
(c)
Duration of 

contracts / 
arrangements 
/ transactions
(d)
Salient terms of 

the contracts or 
arrangements or
transactions including 

the value, if any
(e)
justification for 

entering in to 
such contracts or 
arrangements or 

transactions
(f)
date(s) of 

approval by 
the Board
(g)
Amount 
paid as 
advances, if 
any:
(h)
Date on which the 

special resolution 
was passed in 
general meeting 

as required under 
first proviso to 
section 188
Not Applicable
2.
 
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm™s length basis:
(a) Name(s) of the related 
party and nature of 
relationship
(b)
 
Nature of contracts /
 
arrangements / transactions
(c)
 
Duration
 
of contracts /
 
arrangements /
 
transactions
(d) Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or 
 
 
transactions including the value, if any
Supreme Industries 

Overseas (FZE)
Sale of goods including 

compensation for rendering 
of services
On-going
In normal course of business & in line with Market 
Parameters. Sale of goods 
R
 0.05 Crores. Rendering 
of services 
R
 1.5 Crores.
Supreme Petrochem Ltd.
Purchase/Sale of goods or 
materials & provision of any 

services in connection with 
the sale or purchase of goods 
or materials including storage 

thereof.
On-going
In normal course of business & in line with Market 

Parameters. Purchase of goods 
R
 107.30 Crores. Sale 
of goods 
R
 1.95 Crores.
Dividend received 
R
 47.75 Crores
M/s Devvrat Impex (P) 

Ltd
Sales of Plastic Piping System
On-going
In normal course of business & in line with Market 

Parameters. Sale of Goods amount 
R
 51.43 Crores. 
Rendering of service 
R
 0.01 Crore
Note:- 
Appropriate approvals have been taken for related party transactions. No Advances have been paid or received against the 
transactions mentioned above.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
B. L. Taparia
 
Chairman
Place: Mumbai
 
Date: 29
th
 April 2022
25
ANNEXURE VII (A)
Annexure to the Boards™ Report
FORMAT FOR THE ANNUAL REPORT ON CSR ACTIVITIES TO BE INCLUDED IN THE BOARD™S REPORT
1.
 
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company:
 
The Board of Directors™ at its meeting held on 21
st
 July, 2014 approved the CSR Policy of your company pursuant to the provisions 
of section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014.
2.
 
Composition of CSR Committee:
S. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation /Nature of Directorship
No. of meetings of 
CSR Committee held 
during the year
No. of meetings of CSR 
Committee attended 
during the year
1
Shri Ramnathan Kannan
Independent Director (Chairman)
1
1
2
Shri B. L. Taparia
Non-Executive Director
1
1
3
Shri M. P. Taparia
Managing Director
1
1
 
The CSR Committee met on 28th April, 2022 and it has taken on record the activities undertaken by the Company from 
 
1
st
 April, 2021 to 31
st
 March 2022 and also discussed and approved the plan for the financial year 2022-2023.
3.
Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects 
approved by the board are disclosed on the website of the company.
www.supreme.co.in
4.
Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-

rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if 
applicable (attach the report).
Not applicable for Financial 
Year 2021-22
5.
 
Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate Social responsibility 
Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the financial year, if any Œ  
Sr. 
No.
Financial Year
Amount available for set-off from preceding 
financial years (in 
r
)
Amount required to be set-off for the 

financial year, if any (in 
r
)
1
2018-2019
NIL
NIL
2
2019-2020
NIL
NIL
3
2020-2021
NIL
NIL
6.
 
Average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
    
:- 
r
 784.60 Crores
7.
 
(a) 
 
Two percent of Average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
  
 :- 
r
 15.69 Crores
(b) 
 
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects/ programmes or activities for the financial year
 
 :- NA
(c) 
 
Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any 
   
 :- NIL
 
(d) 
 
Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b- 7c)
    
 :- 
r
 15.69 Crores
8.
 
(a) 
 
CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year: - 
Total Amount Spent 

for the Financial 
Year
Amount Unspent (in 
R
)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR 
Account as per Section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to section 135(5).
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the fund
Amount
Date of Transfer
R
 15.69 Crores
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
 
(b) 
 
Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
SR. 
NO
Name 
of the 
Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
Schedule 
VII to the 
Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No).
Location of the 
project.
Project 
duration
Amount 
allocated 
for the 
project 
 
(
R 
in 
Lakhs)
Amount 
spent in 
the current 
financial Year 
(
R 
in Lakhs)
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account for the 
project as per 
Section 135(6) 
 
(
R 
in Lakhs)
Mode of 
Implementation - 
Direct (Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation 
- Through Implementing 
Agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
number
1
 NIL 
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
2
 NIL
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
3
 NIL
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 
TOTAL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26
 
(c)
 
Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sl. 
 
No.
 
Name of the Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
schedule VII 
to the Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/ 
No)
Location of the 
 
project
Amount spent 
for the project 
(
r
 in Lakhs)
Mode of 
implementa
-
tion -
Direct 
 
(Yes/No)
Mode of implementation - 
Through implementing agency
 State
District
Name
CSR 
registration 
number
1
Healthcare & Basic living 
facilities
i
Yes
Rajasthan
Nagaur/ 
Churu
R
 137.05
 No
Supreme 
Foundation
CSR00005229
2
Healthcare & Basic living 

facilities
i
Yes
Rajasthan
Ladnun /
Nagaur
R
 34.00
 Yes
NA
NA
3
Healthcare & Basic living facilities
i
Yes
Kerala
Malappuram
R
 29.70 
 No
Supreme 
Foundation
CSR00005229
4
Healthcare & Basic living 
facilities
i
Yes
West Bengal,
 
Maharashtra, 
Madhya 
Pradesh, UT
Kharagpur,  
Durgapur, 
Gadegaon, 
Indore, 
Jalgaon, 
Mumbai, 
Gwalior, 
Silvassa
R
 28.42 
Yes
NA
NA
5
Providing Sanitation facilities
i
Yes
Rajasthan, 
Maharashtra
Nagaur, 
Jaswantgarh 
Jalgaon
R
 261.06 
 No
Supreme 
Foundation
CSR00005229
6
Providing Sanitation facilities
i
Yes
Maharashtra
Jalgaon
R
 2.89 
Yes
NA
NA
7
Health care facilities
i
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
R
 0.71
Yes
NA
NA
8
Repairs/ Renovation of 

Crematorium
i
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Gwalior
R
 16.47
Yes
NA
NA
9
Health care Facilities 
i
Yes
Tamil Nadu
Hosur
R
 0.20  
Yes
NA
NA
10
Educational Purpose, Medical 
Assistance 
i,ii
Yes
Maharashtra
Aurangabad
R
 100.00 
No
Maheshwari 
Seva Trust
CSR00011133
11
Medical & Health Care
i,ii
Yes
Gujrat
Karamsad
R
 2.00
No
Charutar 
Arogya 
Mandal
CSR00002068
12
Education and Medical support 

etc
i,ii
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
R
 1.00
No
Seth Shree 
Motisha 
Sadharmik 
Bhakti Kendra
CSR00005802
13
Health care and Education
i,ii
Yes
Kerala
Ernakulam
 
(Aluva City)
R
 5.00
 No
Supreme 
Foundation
CSR00005229
14
Medial and Education Support
i,ii
Yes
Maharashtra
Gadegaon
R
 0.88
Yes
NA
NA
15
Educational Purpose and 
Medical Assistance
i,ii
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
R
 5.51
Yes
NA
NA
16
Fees for the education of the 

Childrens 
ii
Yes
Maharashtra
Gadegaon
R
 0.49 
Yes 
NA
NA
17
Deployment of Teachers in 

Primary & Secondary School
 ii
 Yes 
 Rajasthan
Nagaur, 
Bikaner, 
Churu, 
Nagaur, 
Bangad
 
R
 571.63 
 No
Supreme 
Foundation
CSR00005229
18
Promoting Education
ii
Yes
Kerala
Ernakulam 
(Cochin)
R
 4.87
Yes
NA
NA
19
Educational activities
ii
Yes
Rajasthan
Jaswanthgarh
R
 200  
 No
Shri Surajmal 
Taparia 
Memorial 
Trust
CSR00006129
20
Educational activities
ii
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
R
 10.00
No
Jeetmal 
Taparia 
Memorial 
Trust
CSR00026107
27
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sl. 
 
No.
 
Name of the Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
schedule VII 
to the Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/ 
No)
Location of the 
 
project
Amount spent 
for the project 
(
r
 in Lakhs)
Mode of 
implementa
-
tion -
Direct 
 
(Yes/No)
Mode of implementation - 
Through implementing agency
 State
District
Name
CSR 
registration 
number
21
Education activities 
ii
Yes 
Kerala
Ernakulam
R
 2.00
No
Supreme 
Foundation
CSR00005229
22
Promoting employment
ii
Yes
Maharashtra
Gadegaon
R
 10.48 
Yes
NA
NA
23
Education to Under privilege 
children, protection of 
environment, women 

employment
ii,iii
Yes
Delhi
South Delhi
R
 0.50
No
Lakshyam 
NGO
CSR00007758
24
Promoting the employment for 

self-reliance group of women
iii
Yes
Uttar Pradesh
Kanpur
R
 1.11 
Yes
NA
NA
25
Asylum for old and 

unserviceable Cows. (Goshala)
iv
Yes
Maharashtra
Jalgaon
R
 8.40
Yes
NA
NA
26
Asylum for old and 

unserviceable Cow. (Goshala)
iv
Yes 
Rajasthan
Nagour
R
 51.00 
No
Sri Krishna 
Gopal 
GoSadan 
Samiti 
CSR00006959
27
Protection of culture 
v
Yes
Maharashtra
Gadegaon
R
 2.93
Yes
NA
NA
28
Protection of culture
v
Yes
West Bengal
Kharagpur
R
 0.52
Yes
NA
NA
29
Measure of benefit to war 

widow 
vi
Yes 
Maharashtra
Satara, Pune,
 
Nashik
R
 1.00
Yes
NA
NA
30
Police Welfare Fund
vi
Yes
Maharashtra
Gadegaon
R
 5.71
Yes
NA
NA
31
Providing Sports facilities & 
Fitness Equipment
vii
Yes
Tamil Nadu, 
Maharashtra
Hosur, Urse
R
 4.89
Yes
NA
NA
32
Rural Development 
xi
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Gwalior
R
 10.00
Yes
NA
NA
33
Rural Development
xi
Yes
Maharashtra
Gadegaon
R
 3.44
Yes
NA
NA
34
Flood Relief Fund
xii
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Gwalior
R
 2.50 
Yes
NA
NA
35
Drinking Water ,Education & 
Literacy, Environment & Forests
i,ii,iv
Yes 
Madhya 
Pradesh
Bhopal
R
 42.51
 Yes
NA
NA
36
Educational Purpose and 

promotion of Sanskrit language
ii,v
Yes
Gujrat
Porbandar
R
 16.00
No
Shree Bhartiya 
Sanskruti 
Samvardhak 
Trust
CSR00015538
TOTAL
 
 
 
 
 
R
 1574.87
 
 
 
(d) 
 
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: 
R
 0.03 Crores
(e) 
 
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: NA 
(f) 
 
Total Amount Spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e):- 
R
 15.78 Crores
(g) 
 
Excess amount for set off, if any:- 
R
 0.09 Crores 
Sl. No.
Particular
Amount (
R
 in Crores)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
R
 15.69
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
R
 15.78
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
R
 0.09
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial 

years, if any
NA
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
R
 0.09
28
9. 
 
(a)
 
Details of unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years: Not Applicable 
1
2
3
4
5
Preceding 
Financial 
Year
Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account 
under section 135 (6)
Amount spent 
in the reporting 
Financial Year (in 
R
)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per section 135(6), if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
financial years
Name of the Fund
Amount (in 
R
)
Date of Transfer
2018-2019
NA
-
-
-
-
-
2019-2020
NA
-
-
-
-
-
2020-2021
NA
-
-
-
-
 
(b) 
 
Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s):
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
S. 
No.
Project 
ID
Name 
of the 
Project
Financial Year 
in which the 
project was 
commenced
Project 
duration
Total amount 
allocated for the 
project (in 
R
)
Amount Spent 
in the reporting 
Financial Year (in 
R
)
Cumulative Amount 
Spent at the end of 
financial year
Status of 
the project 
-Completed /
Ongoing
NIL
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
10. 
 
In case of creation or acquisition of asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through CSR spent in 
the financial year.
 
(Asset wise details) NA
(a) 
 
Date of creation/ acquisition of the asset(s)
(b) 
 
Amount of CSR spent for creation /acquisition of asset
(c) 
 
Details of the entity/ public authority under whose name such asset is registered, address etc.
(d) 
 
Provide details of the property or asset(s) created/ acquired (including complete address and location of the property)
11. 
 
Specify the reason(s) if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 135(5): NA
Shri M.P. Tapraria
(Managing Director)
Shri R Kannan

(Chairman CSR Committee)
Date: 29
th
 April, 2022
29
ANNEXURE VII (B)
Annexure to the Boards™ Report
D
ETAILS
 
OF
 
ACTIVITIES
 
UNDERTAKEN
 
UNDER
 C
ORPORATE
 S
OCIAL
 R
ESPONSIBILITY
 
1.
 
Supreme Foundation:- 
 
The company conducts its Social Development Programmes primarily through Supreme Foundation. To provide quality education, 
uplifting of underprivileged community of the society, water, sanitation, health & hygiene and preservation & protection of 
environment through tree plantation etc. are the focused areas identified by the Supreme Foundation. 
 
It is necessary to provide good education at grass root level for the all-around progress and development of the students and to 

make them disciplined, visionary and responsible citizens of India. Imparting of upgraded education at the base level will inculcate 
the good quality attributes among the children & they will learn the importance of our core value system & ethics and culture. 

Education is the prime aspiration of Supreme Foundation apart from elevating of deprived people in the society by providing 
basic living and healthcare facilities. With this object, Supreme foundation is playing important & constructive role in balancing 
the socio-economic structure of the Rajasthan region by deputing human resources viz (teachers, professors, volunteers) in the 
field of education and providing physical resources so that the quality of education at Government School can be improved. 
Supreme Foundation continues to work wholeheartedly even in the Covid-19 pandemic.
2.
 
Purpose :- 
 
The company has initiated project to provide the teachers for educating the students in government Sanskrit schools in Ajmer 

and Bikaner Divisions and lecturers in Sanskrit colleges in Rajasthan through Supreme Foundation. To meet the above objective, 
company has entered into an Agreement dated 27
th
 June, 2017, between Supreme Foundation, Mumbai, with Divisional Sanskrit 
Education Officer, Ajmer, and Government of Rajasthan with an initial period for 5 years and the same has been further renewed 

for the period of 5 years. Pursuant to the above MOU volunteers teachers shall be recruited in the primary/ secondary school in 
9 districts viz Bikaner, Hanumangarh, Shreeganganagar, Churu, Jhunjhunu, Ajmer, Bhilwara, Nagaur & Tonk. Moreover in entire 
Rajasthan in Sanskrit colleges lecturers shall be recruited for 2 years as per the requirements. Further it has also undertaken similar 
activities of providing teachers in primary and secondary schools of (i) Ladnu Tehsil in Nagaur District of Rajasthan & entered 
into an agreement with education department, Nagur dated 1
st
 May 2019 and the same was renewed on 22.04.2022 for further 
period of 5 years. (ii) Sujangarh Tehsil in Churu district of Rajasthan and entered into agreement with education department 

Sujangarh (Churu) on 1
st
 January 2022 for a period of 5 years. 
 
Supreme foundation has been working with primary objective of: 
a.
 
Upgradation of basic education at foundation level in primary/ secondary school.
b.
 
To promote encouragement of girls education. 
c.
 
Encouraging sports & cultural activities. 
d.
 
Uplifting level of education to backward section of children in the society. 
e.
 
Availability of physical resources required for education, preparation of playground. 
f.
 
Recognition of meritorious students by giving awards. 
g.
 
Making School Campus green, clean and environment friendly. 
h.
 
Co-scholastic activities evaluation and increase in enrolment of number of students. 
i.
 
100% passing percentage in Board results.
j.
 
Coaching of community classes through Shiksha Aapke Dvaar during Covid pandemic.
k.
 
Learning of Computer Applications.
l.
 
Digital Education through various ﬁAppsﬂ (E-learning & M-Learning).
 
Supreme Foundation is working to promote Sanskrit language through providing lecturers at various Sanskrit Colleges in Rajasthan 
to promote & augment Sanskrit language among students, the purpose of which is to spread the spirit of universal brotherhood, 

& make them understand importance of Indian cultural values & rich heritage so that children remain connected with our core 
principles & ideology which will make the nation healthy & prosperous in every spheres.
3.
 
Brief description of activities undertaken in Government Sanskrit College & Government Sanskrit School which 
 
 
yielded significant achievements in various districts of Rajasthan are mentioned as under:-
 
A.
 
Project of educational upgradation of Govt. Sanskrit College in Rajasthan
(i)
 
Increase in Enrolment & Improvement in the Results of the Students
 
Due to the more lecturers recruited in Rajasthan and in view of proper guidance of active volunteer/ teachers engaged 
by Supreme Foundation, there has been increase in number of new admissions in Govt. Colleges. The examination 

result also improved significantly with 100% passing result in most of the colleges in last two years on y-o-y basis over 
a period of last 5 years. 
(ii)
 
Active Participation of Students in Sports & Cultural Activities
 
The students have participated in traditional sports and cultural activities and shown good performance in various 

types of competition. The participation of college girls in these activities was also encouraging. The winner/ runner 
up students were received various rewards. These competitions have improved physical fitness amongst students and 

enabled them to perform daily activities in timely & disciplined manner.
30
(iii)
 
Environmental Awareness through Tree Plantation
 
Tree plantation and plant growth activities are conducted by college teachers & volunteers in the Sanskrit Colleges 
which has created awareness about environment protection and to keep the college and its surrounding clean/ green 
by planting different types of trees.
B.
 
Project of educational upgradation of Govt. Sanskrit Schools in Nagaur, Churu, Ajmer, Bikaner, Hanumangarh, 
Shreeganganagar, Jhunjhunu, Tonk & Bhilwara
1.
 
Status of the School working before 5 Years
 
 
Before 5 years the Govt. Sanskrit schools were running in very pathetic manner. Due to the shortage of teachers in these 
schools there was continuous decrease in enrolment & significant fall in the admission of girls due to non-availability 

of female teachers, missing of academic activities, non-organisation of festive programmes, Low level of learning skill 
amongst the student especially in English, science & maths due to vacant position of teachers remained in these subjects 

for many years. Above limitations have resulted increase of dominance of private schools in these viccinity.
2.
 
Present Status:
(i)
 
Increase in New admission & overall improvement in the performance of the students:-
 
After engagement of more volunteers/ teachers (subject-wise) by Supreme Foundation, there has been significant 
increase in enrolment in the ratio of both gender viz girls & boys, schools started running regularly, interest of the 
students increased towards Govt. Sanskrit schools & overall improvement witnessed in the learning level drastically 

among students. Due to the special effort of teaching in mathematics, Science & English extra ordinary progress 
has been seen in the examination result in these subjects. This has resulted in upgradation of schools level of 

Sanskrit education by the department in their record. 
(ii)
 
Recognition of Meritorious students and honouring them with appropriate rewards.
 
There has been significant increase in the meritorious Students and these scholar students were given due recognition 
and honoured them with appropriate rewards.
(iii)
 
Education during Covid-19
 
Under the guidance of the management of Supreme Foundation arrangements were made for education in the 
community & in schools during Covid-19
(iv)
 
Bridge course for Primary & Upper Primary Classes:
 
Due to the lockdown and closure of the schools there has been degradation in the level of primary/ upper classes, 
learning gap has been created in the studies due to promotion of students without exams. To bridge the same 
and to improve subject wise learning skills of the students, special efforts were made by deputing (a) additional 
primary teachers in the schools (b) Conducting extra classes to cover extra course for general education & Sanskrit 
education (c) To complete the syllabus on timeline and with proper comprehension (d) These initiative has helped 

in overall improvement amongst students and especially to weaker students in their studies and to appear before 
the board exams with full confidence.
(v)
 
(a) 
 
Tree Plantation under the concept of Vriksha Mitra
 
Students have been made understanding the concept of ﬁVriksha Mitraﬂ with more tree plantation, regular 
watering and proper nurturing as per the need of each season & as a result the dream of ﬁgreen schoolﬂ 
became true. Drip water system was installed for irrigation by planting trees in Govt. Sanskrit Vidyalaya.
 
(b)
 
Birthday Celebration through Tree Plantation :-
 
Students were motivated to plant a tree in the school with the responsibility of its protection as a part of 
celebration on the occasion of his/ her birthday.
(vi)
 
Timely Completion of Syllabus 
 
Syllabus of board exams was completed on time through additional strength of teachers/ volunteers. This has also 

resulted in the improvement in the level of weak students.
(vii)
 
Distribution of CDs:
 
In schools where computers were available CDs were distributed & as a result gap of study level between private 

school & Govt. School narrow down especially in English language. The students of the primary level of Sanskrit 
education also got stronger hold of English language which has removed the inferiority complex among the parents 
to their children in providing education in Govt school as compared to private school.
(viii)
 
Learn by fun
 
Primary level students were taught method of learn by fun.
(ix)
 
Utility of Prayer books
 
Prayer books were made available to the students, resulted in increase in regularity amongst students & also 

brought discipline in the prayer meeting. The prayer hall has become a symbol of inspiration & motivation place 
& enabled the students to increase their concentration.
(x)
 
Kit Distribution for the prevention of Covid-19
 
Due to Kit distribution families felt themselves safe and secure in sending their children in schools. They express 
gratitude for this gesture of foundation.
(xi)
 
Distribution of Sweaters
 
In the winter season when the climate is too cold in Rajasthan, sweaters were distributed amongst students to 
protect them from cold winter and it has provided much relief to the students physically.
31
3.
 
Appreciation by Rajasthan Govt. for support of free medicine
 
During Covid-19 volunteer/ teachers supported the vaccination program of Rajasthan Govt. and encouraged the people 
to get them fully vaccinated with the help of medical team. Doubt in the mind of general public regarding so called 
side effect of vaccination were removed. Rajasthan govt. appreciated initiative of Supreme Foundation for their support  
for free medicines scheme and their valuable contribution in vaccination programme during Covid period.
4.
 
Shiksha Aapke Dvaar
 
According to an order of the state Government, the entire teaching work was stopped in in the Schools of Municipal 
Corporation and Municipality area from 10 January to 15 February2022. Volunteers were appointed in the community 
centre by the Supreme Foundation to ensure that the teaching work should not be interrupted. After getting permission 

from the parents of the students, the volunteers encouraged the students to join the teaching work. As a Result, the 
students started remaining present in the Community Centre on daily basis. Regular homework was given to the students 
and it was checked from time to time. At present, special preparations are being made for ensuing board examination, 

in which practice is being done through model papers.
5.
 
Learning through Computer Buses 
 
Earlier the students of the govt. schools, most of them belongs to very poor families, were not getting the chance to 

know basic knowledge of computer, since it was never used by them due to non-availability of computers lab till upper 
primary level. Even in most of secondary and senior secondary schools where computer labs were available proper 

computer classes/ training were not held due to non-functioning of computer in working conditions. When computer 
bus facility was started this initiative was well appreciated by the school authorities. Now the students are learning 
practical knowledge of computer and also its usefulness & general applications. Besides students, young people are 

also taking interest in learning applications of computer. Presently two computer buses are moving in several districts 
of Rajasthan. Fully equipped with 20 computer station in each bus and a computer teacher & coordinator.
6.
 
Mobilisation of Oxygen Plants at hospitals situated at Nagaur & Ladnun for the treatment of the patients affected 
by Covid -19 Pandemic. 
7.
 
Supply of Medical Equipments such as Nebolyzer, ECG, CBC, Oxygen concentrator etc. in Govt Hospitals in 
Rajasthan & Kerala & West Bengal for the treatment of patients.
8.
 
Other medical relief and support in the Covid Pandemic were provided from time to time.
9.
 
Construction of Road with Nala, Construction of Toilet Blocks and other repair at the request of Gram Sarpanch.
10.
 
Renovation/repair & providing additional facilities at various schools which has facilitated the students to study 
and teachers to teach comfortably.
 
 
Future Plans
 
In coming year, Supreme Foundation would continue its focus to provide more and more resources to improve education level 
in Govt. schools in Bikaner and Ajmer Divisions & colleges in Rajasthan as well as in various schools of Ladnu Tahsil of Nagore 

District of Rajasthan. It will also undertake infrastructure improvement at various schools including construction of classrooms, 
toilet facilities, and drinking water facilities apart from providing computers, books, furniture and other required accessories. 
Providing basic living facilities and construction of village roads, water kunds and public convenience facilities would also be 
continued. 
 
It plans to spend about 
R
 1900 Lakhs on various existing and proposed activities being undertaken for the year 2022-23.
 
Company has also taken various initiatives and brief details of activities undertaken are as under:
 
1)
 
Village health improvement Initiative :
 
This initiative has entered its 14th successful year since it™s inception in the year 2008. The health center™s main camp is 

located at Dhadgaon in the district of Nandurbar, Maharashtra.
 
This facility comprises of a mobile medical van equipped with necessary diagnostic equipments, medicines etc. This mobile 
van is manned by team of 4 persons which includes a Nurse, a Kishori co-coordinator, a driver and a project co-coordinator. 
 
During the period Apr™21 to Mar™22, this facility has benefited as many as 5353 villagers mostly coming from tribal areas 
& residing in remote villages of Nandurbar District.
 
The above health improvement program™s initiatives include -
a)
 
Kishori Karyashalas (Kishori Workshops) at villages.
b)
 
Free distribution of medicines especially during epidemics. 
c)
 
Company™s Ambulance is provided to the needy & critical patients of nearby villages for first aid as well as transferring 
patients to the government or private hospitals in bigger towns.
2) 
 
Daily Drinking water supply to village of Gadegaon:
 
Village of Gadegaon has been facing a problem of acute shortage of drinking water through out the year. The problem is of 
perennial nature. Our company is supplying 1,50,000 liter of water every day from our water pond at Gadegaon complex.
3) 
 
Police welfare fund:
 
Company has contributed generously to the Police Welfare Fund which is used for the welfare activities for the families of 

police personnel viz children™s education, scholarships, medical help, & special assistance to the widows etc. The company 

has contributed 
R
 5,00,000/- for the above Welfare fund during the year under review. It has also provided office furniture 
to Jamner Police Station
32
4) 
 
Multi-purpose Hall at MIDC Police Station:
 
The company has constructed the multipurpose hall at a cost of around 
R
 10 lakhs for use of for many different activities 
like training programs for police personnel, conferences, cultural programs, Yoga & meditation and also as a transit dwelling 
facility for the police personnel during times of insurgencies & threat to the law and order situations. 
 
5) 
 
Construction of Public Toilet Block at Sagar Park, Jalgaon:
 
This Public Toilet Block (Convenience facility) was built and made operational on 16
th
 Nov 2021.
 
This is the second facility of it™s nature provided by the company in the service of the citizens of Jalgaon city. This is line 
with the Govt. of India™s ﬁ Swacchh Bharat Abhiyaan ﬁ This will also help municipal corporation towards it™s goal of getting 
recognition to the city of Jalgaon as a Smart City.
 
The company has signed an agreement with Jalgaon Municipal Corporation and as such the facility will be operated & 
maintained by the company for a period of 30 years or more.
 
This facility is located in the heart of the city on a prominent road near Aakashwani Chowk. It is built on a sprawling ground 
of Sagar Park. 
 
This ground is frequently used for multiple activities like sports competitions, exhibitions & for various social, religious & 
cultural programs throughout the year. 
 
The total amount spent on the construction of this facility is 
R
 59,75,000/-
 
Summary:- 
 
During the year under review, company has spent a sum of 
R
 1,577.65 lakhs under its CSR initiatives. These includes donations 
to several registered trusts apart from direct spending for Educational purpose to schools & colleges, Basic Living facilities & 

Health Care, Natural Disaster relief, cleanliness, self-employment initiative,& cultural activities and providing company™s goods 
at special prices to Philanthropic NGOs and Trusts. These Trusts/NGOs are doing great work for the humanity and providing 

education, vocational training, medical & healthcare facilities, basic needs and amenities for underprivileged at a very low cost 
and grants for medical help & education.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
B. L. Taparia 
Chairman
Place: Mumbai 
Date: 29
th
 April, 2022
33
Management Discussion and Analysis
1.
 
OVERVIEW
 
The year began on a gloomy note with the second wave of 
Covid which affected the economy in general and the rural 

economy in particular, in a very severe way. The first quarter 

of the year which normally remains most business friendly 
for the Company (considering its product profile) witnessed 
quite a weak demand for most of the product segments of 
the Company.
 
Thereafter, Polymer prices witnessed relentless upward 

march which continued up to middle of November 2021. 

Subsequently, prices fell quite steeply (especially in PVC 

Resin) which virtually destroyed the demand of Plastic Pipe 

Systems albeit temporarily.
 
Even in such extreme adverse circumstances, the Company 

managed to recover large quantum of its lost business and 

achieved substantially better business in remaining part of 

the year. (compared to preceding previous year) in most of 

the segments in which it operates.
 
Covid-19 pandemic was very effectively contained by the 
Central & State Governments with effective vaccination 
drive and local lockdowns, while largely enforcing Covid 
appropriate behavior. This has galvanised the economy on 
growth path. It was further supported by normal monsoon 
resulting in improved agricultural production.
 
Despite the hostile & adverse environment, Company 
maintained a positive outlook for its growth plans. It persisted 

with its large investment plan with full confidence that 

business will be quite promising in the year 2022-23 and 

beyond.
 
The expectations are proving to be realistic. This is further 

supported by softening of the upward trend of Plastic raw 

material prices. From the start of the year beginning April 

2022, the Polymer prices have started downward trend.
 
Company sold 4,11,521 tons product in the year 2019-20. 

Thereafter, in subsequent two years, the volumes continued 
downward trend reaching a low of 3,93,908 tons in the year 
2021-22. The Company is confident that in the current year 
(2022-23) Company will be able to achieve good business 

volume and growth over pre-covid level achieved in the 

year 2019-20.
 
Most of the business segments are now showing improved 
demand prospects. The Composite LPG Cylinder division 
which was formed in the year 2014 was languishing up to 
end of March 2021. However during the year under review, 

this division started utilizing its capacity effectively and has 

now firmed up its expansion plan to double the installed 
capacity.
 
Thus, the Company is now actively present in thermoset 
section of Plastics, which augurs well for the further growth 

plans in this section of business.
 
The Company continues with its investment plans vigorously 

which may exceed the Capex plan of 2021-22. The 

Company envisages good business growth opportunities in 

all its segments going forward as the impact of pandemic 

has ebbed and several initiatives are being taken by the 

Government to put the Country on higher growth path.
2.
 
PRODUCT GROUPS
 
The product groups of the Company have been categorised 
as follows:
Group
Products
Plastics 
Piping 
System
uPVC Pipes, Injection Moulded PVC fittings 
and handmade fittings, Polypropylene 
Random Co-polymer pipe system, HDPE 
Pipe Systems, CPVC Pipes Systems, 

Inspection Chambers, manholes, Toilets 
Bath fittings, Roto moulded Tanks and Fittings 
and Solvents, Industrial Piping System, DWC 

Pe Pipe System, Pex Pipe System and Fire 
Sprinkler System
Consumer 
products
Furniture 
Industrial 

Products
Industrial Components, Material handling 

System and Pallets - Roto moulded crates, 
pallets and garbage bins and Composite 
LPG Cylinders.
Packaging 

Products
Flexible packaging film products, Protective 

Packaging Products, Cross Laminated Film 
products.
 
PRODUCT GROUP WISE SHARE IN TURNOVER 
 
 
FOR THE LAST TWO YEARS (% of Value)
Plastics 
Piping 
Systems []
Industrial 
Products  []
Packaging 
Products  []
Consumer 
Products []
2021
-
22 
 Plastics Piping 
System 66%
Packaging 
Products 16%
Industrial 
Products 13% 
Consumer 
Products 5%
2021-22
Plastic Piping 
System 
[]
Industrial 
Products
[]
Packaging 
Products 
[]
Consumer 
Products []
2020
-
21 
 Plastics Piping 
System 65%
Packaging 
Products 17%
Industrial 
Products 12% 
Consumer 
Products 6%
2020-21
 
The net turnover (including other income) of the Company 
for the year under review was 
R
 7840.51Crores (including 
 
R
 105.89 Crores by way of trading in other related products) 
as against 
R
 6383.59 Crores (including 
R
 125.23 Crores 
by way of trading in other related products) during the 

previous year.
 
The Company has sold 393908 tons of Plastic products as 
against 409109 tons of Plastic products in the corresponding 
period of previous year, reflecting a de-growth of 4% in 

product turnover by volume. 
34
 
The Company exported goods worth US $ 29.11 million as 
against US $ 18.35 million during the corresponding period 
of the previous year. Profit before interest, depreciation and 

exceptional items and taxes during the period under review 
have been at 
R
 1309.89 Crores as against 
R
 1312.74 Crores 
during the previous year.
3.
 
COMPANY STRENGTH AND GROWTH DRIVERS
3.1
 
Manufacturing Sites
 
The Company is operating from 25 manufacturing sites 
across 12 States and Union Territories. The Company has 

taken up of Three Green Field Projects primarily for Plastics 
Piping System in the States of Assam, Odisha and Tamil 

Nadu. Same are likely to be in operation during first half of 
current year.
3.2
 
Distribution Network
 
The Company is committed to reach to all the Tehsil areas of 

the Country. The Company has been able to create Dealer 
network in hundreds of Tehsils during the year, where 

Company™s products are either not there or having very 
marginal reach. The Company™s active Channels Partners 
strength increased to 4053 Nos in March 2022.
 
Global markets have started opening up, enabling the 
Company to reach to the overseas customers. The Company 
has started participating in various national and international 
exhibitions, frequency of which is expected to further 
increase going forward.
 
The Company continues to open more Depots to service its 
customers in a cost efficient manner. The Company has total 
36 Depots and Fabrication facilities for its various product 
groups.
3.3
 
Growth Drivers
 
The Company™s spend on TV advertisement at regional and 
national level and in various sports events being telecast 
apart from use of diverse modes of media during the year 
has strengthened its Brand further. Participation in various 
national & international exhibitions has again started. 
 
The Company has conducted large nos. of plumber meets to 
educate them about new piping products, proper application 

techniques etc . The same has been well appreciated by the 
plumbing community and they have expressed their desire 
for more such events to be organised on regular basis. 
Knowledge centers opened by the Company are playing a 
pivotal role in providing knowledge about new products/

applications and able to create awareness among architects, 
contractors, farmers, plumbers and channel partners. 
 
Unfortunately counterfeit products are being introduced 
by some unscrupulous players in a large way in the Pipe 

Segment, Cross Laminated film and Furniture product 
segments. The Company is quite active in seeking legal 

remedy to protect the consumers from getting cheated. 
The Company has been largely successful in containing this 

menace which however appears to be a recurring problem 

area.
3.4
 
Renewable Energy - a way forward
 
The Company is committed and has taken very focused steps 

to ensure that it uses more and more green and renewal 
energy and becomes more environmental friendly.
 
Roof top solar capacity of the Company has almost 
doubled from 8.61 Mwp FY(20-21) to 17.09 Mwp during 

the year FY(21-22) i.e. increase of 8.480 Mwp successfully 
commissioned at various units. Further commissioning of 
6.22 Mwp Roof Top Solar Power is in progress at various 
units & shall become operational in April/ May 2022. 

Company also signed PPA of 3.5 Mwp Group Captive Solar 
Power for its units in U.P. which is likely to be operational 

by September, 2022.
 
Company is also using and exploring ways to increase uses of 
wind energy. During the year 102.84 Lakh wind units were 
consumed by different units across India which constitutes 
3.85%
 of Company™s total energy consumption. Further, 
Company also signed PPA of 70 Lakh Hybrid Units PA for 
its two units located at Halol in Gujarat. Company plans to 

further invest about 
R
 40 Crs. during the year for Solar energy 
installations and would also increase usage of renewable 

energy sources through open access/Group Captive or apex 
mode.
 
During the year Company could achieve usage of about 
12% of its total energy consumption through renewable 
energy sources and it aims to achieve 20% target by end of 
financial year 2022-23.
 
The Company aspires to be carbon neutral at the earliest 

feasible and would pursue this vision in a focussed manner 
by taking various effective steps and allocating more 

resources.
4.
 
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
4.1
 
PLASTICS PIPING SYSTEMS
 
The Company continues its objective to aggressively grow 
Plastic Pipe System business where the Company is a leader 
in the segment as it has the largest portfolio of products, 
which is being continuously expanded to offer more systems 
as required by the market it caters to.
 
During the year under review the Company registered an 

overall revenue growth of about 24.6% in Plastic Piping 
System made from different plastic materials. Overall the 

Company sold 274295 Tons of Pipe System compared to 
294357 Tons in the preceding year.
 
In the year under review the spread of corona pandemic 
was more pronounced in rural areas and consequently the 
AGRI business was affected adversely especially during the 
months of April™21 and May™21. Since the AGRI business 

is of large volumes and seasonal, the loss could not be 
recouped during the off-season period, when there is low 
demand for this application. This has led to de-growth in 
volumes for the full year.
 
PVC is the predominant raw material in the Company™s 
Plastic Pipe business. During the year 21-22 the prices of 
PVC were literally in roller coaster mode. The prices of PVC 
were in upward trend from 16
th
 March 2021 till middle of 
May 2021. Overall prices of PVC went up by 
R
 16/- per kg 
during that period. Thereafter from 1
st
 June ™21 prices of PVC 
started decreasing till up to July™ 2021 and the fall was close 

to 
R
 10/- per kg. Thereafter from 1
st
 August™21 onwards the 
prices of PVC kept increasing till middle of November™21. 
Overall prices of PVC went up by 
R
 42/- per kg during that 
period. Thereafter again the prices of PVC started falling and 

the prices decreased by approx. 
R
 29/- per kg up to beginning 
February™22. This has affected the market sentiment and led 

to de-growth by around 6.9% in volume for the year. 
 
The Government at the Centre and States have put 
the priority focus on Jal Jeevan Mission (To provide tap 

connections to every household), Pradhan Mantri Awas 

Yojana (Housing for all), AMRUT, Swatch Bharat Abhiyan, 
Sanitation and affordable houses to all and development of 

100 smart cities on all India basis. NITI Aayog has declared 
following as growth drivers across the country:
35











and sanitization 
 
Almost all the above growth initiatives will give a boost to 
the business of Plastic Piping System Division.
 
Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA) has transformed the way 
housing sector business is conducted in the Country. Many 
prominent Business Houses have announced ambitious 

plans in this sector to grow geometrically with launch 
of their projects at multiple locations. For affordable 

housing segment the Company has introduced customer 
friendly drainage system under the different brand name 

ﬁStreamlineﬂ which meets all functional requirements of 
the affordable Housing sector. The growth tempo has now 

started and the Company expects good demand coming 
from the segment on a sustainable basis.
 
The Company incurred a Capex of 
R
 132.26 crores in 
the year under review in its various plants to build higher 
capacities and increased range. Majority of them have been 
put to use.
 
The Company with objective of making its footprint for 
manufacturing in South Zone, for Plastic Piping Division, 

has commenced the manufacturing at Jadcherla, District-
Mahaboobnagar at Telangana in a plot area of 50 acres. 
The production of PVC Pipes, cPVC Pipes, Water & Septic 
Tanks at this location has started. The Company is planning 
to start one more plant at South zone at Perundurai, Tamil 
Nadu.
 
The plant at Kharagpur is now fully operational. The 

increased capacity of HDPE and DWC Pipes at Kharagpur 
plant is in place. Further capacity expansion of Moulded 
Fittings is also complete. Plant is operating at its optimum 
capacity now.
 
The Company now has three plants producing HDPE Pipes 

in West, East and North Zones to cater to these markets 
effectively. The Company has planned to start the production 
of HDPE Pipes at three more new locations and all are 
expected to be in place during FY 22-23.
 
The Company now manufactures Roto Moulded Products 

at all four geographies of the country viz., North, South, 
East and West to service these markets cost effectively. The 

Company plans to add manufacturing of Water Tanks at 
three more locations during FY 22-23. The Company has put 

in place plans to substantially increase the business of Water 
Tanks through different market strategy of servicing directly 

to retailers from the respective factories at many places. The 
Company also launched Premium range of Water Tanks 

branded as ﬁWeather Shieldﬂ with added features such as 
superior thermal insulation etc., from three locations with 

good market response. To cater to economy range of Water 
Tanks market the Company plans to start the manufacturing 
of Blow Moulded Water Tanks at two of its locations viz. 
Assam and West Bengal.
 
Overall, by September this year, the Company will be 
producing Tanks at 8 different locations which will enable 
it to service customers more economically.
 
The production of Double Wall Corrugated HDPE Pipes 
continues from Gadegaon and Kharagpur plants with 
necessary BIS Certification. The Company has also launched 

suitable DWC Pipe for Cable Ducting application to cater 
to this application. The Company is in process to educate 

various departments about the benefits of putting in place 
a good quality DWC Pipes with latest technology and using 
virgin certified raw materials in terms of performance and 
longer life.
 
The Company introduced 66 nos. of variety of Injection 
Moulded Pipe fittings during 2021-22. They all have been 
well received in the market. The Company has plans of 

introducing further new items during the year as per system 
requirement. The total product portfolio in Plastic Pipe 

System has reached 9108 nos., thus adding 338 products to 
the range of various Plastic Piping System, over the preceding 
year.
 
The Company manufactures the cPVC Pipes at four of its 
manufacturing locations and cPVC Fittings at two of its 

manufacturing locations. The production of cPVC pipes 
at Jadcherla plant is fully functional with necessary BIS 

certification. For some time The Company had raw material 
availability problem from its only source viz. Kaneka, Japan 
on account of one of its plants having been shut down 

(owing to snow storm in USA) in February 2021. That plant 
of Kaneka has now restarted production. The Company 
is assured of larger volume of CPVC supply in the current 
year from them compared to previous year. The Company 
has also independently tied up with other sources to get 
increased volume of CPVC resins in the current year. The 
cPVC system sales during the year under review grew by 
36.7% in value over preceding year.
 
The Company plans to start three new manufacturing units 

at new locations viz. Guwahati (Assam), Cuttack (Odisha) 
and Perundurai (Tamil Nadu) for Plastic Pipes, Hoses, Water 
Tanks, Septic Tanks etc. At Guwahati the machine installation 
is complete and it should start commercial production 
shortly. At Cuttack the Company has already acquired 29 
acres of land and is in the process of further acquiring 4-5 

acres of land which are plots in between and after taking 
these plots the land will become contiguous. The Company 
has already awarded the Civil and PEB contracts for same 
and construction is in full swing. The Company plans to start 
the production at Cuttack unit by August™22. At Perundurai 
(Tamilnadu) the Company has taken 32 acres of land 
from SIPCOT at their fully developed Industrial Site. The 
construction work is in full swing. For PVC Pipe production, 
at that plant the Company is shifting required machines 
from Gadegaon plant. However, for other products the new 
machines are being ordered. The commercial production 

there is likely to start by August™22.
 
The Company has started manufacturing variety of 
Specialized Valves such as Butterfly Valves, Swing Check 
Valves, Ball type non-return Valve etc.. These Valves have 

been designed for different applications like Industrial, 
Agriculture and Plumbing segments. They are made of 
specialized materials to ensure reliability & longer life and 
also to meet best of global standards. The Company has 
received positive response from the market. The Company 

intends to increase the range of Valves for Industrial usage 
in the current year.
 
The AQUAKRAFT Bath Fittings (including newly launched 
Chrome Plated range) introduced by the Company is now 
well established. There were 26 new items introduced 
during the year. The portfolio in Bath Fittings has reached to 
36
150 items. The Company plans to further complement the 
range during 2022-23 by introducing many new products in 
Bath fittings including some of the premium products. The 

enhanced manufacturing facility at the newly built unit to 
make Bath Fittings at Pondicherry is already in place. The 

Bath Fittings sales during the year under review grew by 30% 
over corresponding previous year.
 
The Company now has 31 Product Systems in the division 
and plans to add 4 new systems in the division viz. Electrical 

Conduit system, Hoses (Garden and Pressure), PEX Pipe 

system and Olefins Moulded Fittings (Compression and 
Electro fusion) during the current year.
 
The Company™s business to Export market during the year 

had a growth of 84.57% in US $ terms. The Company is 

continuously trying to increase its export business of Piping 
Systems in several markets.
 
The Division™s Value-Added Products sale was 41.89% 

compared to 39.27% in the previous year. The Company 
is now servicing through 1250 Channel partners. The 
Company continues to expand its reach by appointing 

new Distributors in areas where there is a gap in servicing. 
The Company has also started directly servicing retailers in 
selected markets for certain specific products of this division.
 
The Company has set up multiple Knowledge Centres 
across the country to train Plumbers and interact with 
Farmers, Architects and Plumbing consultants in respective 

zones. Currently, they are functioning at Gadegaon, Kochi, 
Malanpur and Kharagpur. Company expects to start such 
centres at more locations in near future at the new upcoming 
units. 
 
With the help of specialists, the Company has embarked 

upon a new activity with nomenclature as ﬁPlumbing 
Workshopﬂ which is a full day session with Plumbers. 
Here the sharing is of latest Plumbing techniques along 
with applications of new products introduced by the 
Company in the recent past in the range. The markets have 
well appreciated it and there is pressure on Company to 
increase the Plumbing Workshop numbers substantially. The 
Company could organize only 67 Plumbing workshops in 
the year 2021-22 owing to pandemic related restrictions. 
Company plans to organize 300 Plumbing Workshops 

during the year 2022-23. There are now more than 93,000 
Plumbers associated with the Company.
 
The Company extended welfare measures to its influencers 

and continue to take appropriate measures for their well 
being.
 
The Company has started monitoring data of retailers who 

buy regularly through its distribution channels. An action 
plan to increase the number of such retailers on all India 

basis has been worked out and is being tracked. There are 
now more than 41,000 retailers connected with Piping 

System Business on a regular basis.
 
FlameGuard CPVC pipe system made by the Company is 
considered as a safe material for the use in fire sprinkler 
system in many parts of the country. 
 
Unlike plumbing system, a fire sprinkler system requires 

multiple approvals. Much awaited revision in Indian 

standard IS-15105 has been completed and revised standard 
has been published towards the end of August ™21. Now 
CPVC has been considered as an alternate material to metal 
system for use in Automatic sprinkler fire extinguishing 
system. As system is considered in Indian standard more 
customers started considering this system as an alternate 
material to traditional metal system.
 
Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat have already started 

the use of CPVC Fire Sprinkler system.
 
The cost of the GI pipes for fire sprinkler has shown steep 
increase and the price gap between metal and CPVC 
system has been reduced considerably. The system has 

limited success in a part of the country where MS pipe is 
still considered as material for installation in sprinkler system 

instead of GI pipe. The cost of the MS pipe is approximately 
20-25% less compared to GI pipe system. 
 
In addition to this Company has started use of own in-house 

compound. As a result, the cost of the system has been 

reduced drastically. At present the Company is dependent 
on the import of metal insert fittings and the solvent 

cement. The Company is exploring with its collaborator for 

manufacturing of solvent cement also locally. 
 
Product installation training for this system is a mandatory 

requirement before the actual installation starts to avoid 
hiccups. The Company provides the technical support by 
providing the Bill of Quantities (BOQ) from the sprinkler 
layout of the project. The Company also offers full support 

to the installer including the value engineering to reduce the 
cost without compromising the quality of the installation. 
The Company expects substantial business growth in this 
segment in coming years.
 
The Company got Brand Health Survey done for Supreme 
Piping System. Participants in the survey were consumers, 

retailers and influencers on all India basis. The necessary 
actions are being planned to improve the Brand Health in 
states based on findings of this survey.
 
To support environment concerns, Company is gearing up 

to meet with National Green Tribunal directive of phasing 
out Lead stabilizers from manufacturing of different types 
of uPVC Pipes. The Company has already started using lead 
free stabilisers in many piping systems. 
4.2
 
CONSUMER PRODUCTS
4.2.1
 
FURNITURE
 
The year 2021-22 was a tough year for furniture business 
owing to steep increase in Polymer prices. The prices of 
PP increased by almost 20% from October 2021 onwards, 
adversely affecting the demand of furniture in the second 

half. The Company registered value growth of 36% in the 
first half of 21-22 but witnessed a flat second half. For the 
full year, the Company registered growth of 11% in value 
terms but its volumes declined by 6%.
 
Furniture demand remained adversely affected due to 

service segments not opening up such as Marriage Places, 
Restaurants, Decorators, Schools & Colleges etc. Even 
other segments have seen low demand as they have been 
cautious in their new purchases. Similar trend was seen 

in household purchases as customers are holding back on 
their discretionary spend. The effect of increase in prices 

of PP had a cascading impact on consumer purchases of 
the furniture as the differential in pricing with unbranded 

reprocessed furniture became large. However, the Company 
sees a bright future for the current year as the polymer prices 

have started declining since beginning of the year. With all 
sections of economy opening up paving the way for a growth 

in demand of The Company™s furniture products. 
 
The Company continues to remain a market leader in 

the Premium Range of Plastic Furniture. The Company™s 
premium furniture business grew by 19% in value terms 
during the year and its share of total sales grew from 47% 

to 50% during the year. Due to its multiple manufacturing 
units located across the country e.g. in North (Punjab), 
37
South (Puducherry & Telangana), East (West Bengal), West 
(Maharashtra) & North East (Assam), the Company has an 
excellent reach at Pan India level and is committed to serve 

its customers efficiently. 
 
The Company is a pioneer in upgrading the perception of 
plastic furniture by introducing highly innovative premium 
range. The Company is now focusing on creating large retail 

showrooms for displaying plastic furniture in an attractive 
manner. This will help the consumers to select the furniture 

of their choice from a vast range of display and offer them a 

pleasant experience of buying the premium furniture. The 
Company opened 22 such showrooms in Eastern India in 

21-22 and plans to have total 100 such showrooms by close 
of 22-23. 
 
The Company manufactures furniture with all three different 
technologies i.e Injection Moulding, Blow Moulding & Roto 
Moulding. The Company has been manufacturing Injection 

Moulded Furniture for last 31 years and it contributes to 95% 
of its total furniture sales. The Company started manufacture 

of Roto Moulded Furniture in Feb 2020 but these products 
could not be marketed properly in 21-22 owing to schools 

remaining closed all through the year. With schools now 
opening up, the Company expects business to establish 
from the Roto Moulded range in current financial year.
 
During the year, the Company™s sales of Blow Moulded 

Tables remained flat over last year owing to various business 
segments such as decorators, schools remaining almost 
closed. However, the Company has initiated marketing 
efforts for promoting its sale and expects good growth in 22-
23 from this segment. The Company is already supplying 21 

models of Blow Moulded Tables and will soon be introducing 
4 more models in the first quarter.
 
The Company introduced 12 New models during the 
year of various furniture items comprising of chairs, tables, 
cupboards & baby furniture. Some of the new models 
have been well received and are expected to acieve good 
growth in the coming year. With economy opening up, the 
Company plans to launch variety of new models during 

22-23 which will help in overall growth in the coming year. 
 
The Company is committed to make available its furniture 

across India and is working towards increasing its retail 
penetration at each Tehsil/ Taluka level. The Company 
currently has 14522 retailers selling its furniture who are 
being serviced through Company™s network of 1306 channel 
partners. The Company plans to add 1900 retail outlets 
during the year. The Company has identified some of its 
weak markets and has planned to intensify the marketing 
activity in those markets for improving its retail penetration 
and increasing the number of channel partners in those 
markets.
 
The Company™s furniture range is sold on various e 

commerce portals through a few dedicated channel partners 
as well as various resellers. The Company has initiated the 
process of allowing authorized resellers to actively promote 
the sales through transparency program of Amazon for 

proper servicing of customers, build ratings for Company 
products and increase the overall online sales. The Company 
has launched its own portal for showcasing to its consumers 
its wide range of premium products and make it available 
for them from the comforts of their home. The Company 

is focused on increasing its online presence and product 
offerings and sees this as a future growth driver. 
 
During the year under review Company™s export business 
declined over preceding year owing to steep increase in sea 
freights. The Company has built close relationship with some 
of the leading major retail chains but due to extremely high 
sea freights all orders are on hold. The Company expects 

business to flow as soon as the sea freights are normalised. 
The Company is focusing on markets where the sea freight 

increase impact is relatively less and hopes to see a growth 
in the export sales this year. 
4.3
 
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
4.3.1
 
INDUSTRIAL COMPONENTS
 
The year 21-22 started on a bullish note backed by excellent 

Q4 of FY 20-21 in terms of buoyant economy and demand 
up stick in both Automotive and Consumer Durables 
although some signs were visible of Covid19 second wave. 

However, contrary to initial indication of mild variant, it 
actually turned out to be highly devastating wave. Obviously, 
various state Govts instituted significant Curbs affecting 

sentiments and thereby market demand. Although, factories 

were running, capacity utilization remained suboptimal 
through May Œ July period due to low off take from 

customers. Although, demand started looking up thereafter, 
sales of first quarter was affected irretrievably. The year was 

marked by huge supply chain issues at all our customers 
due to shortage of imported material because of shipping 

and logistics issues, non-availability of containers, shortage 
of semi-conductors etc. This led to typical scenario of high 

demand but no supply. Supply chain was also affected by 
rising commodity and fuel prices during the year. 
 
There was marked shift in Customer Preferences in the 
market in Washer segment, from Semi-Automatic to Fully 

Automatic Machines. This shift adversely affected the 
Company as it has considerable presence in Semi-Automatic 
Washer parts supply to OEs. Company is working very closely 
with the OEs for rationalization of Product ŒMix Share to 
address this shift going forward.
 
In spite of such adversity, The Company™s customers were 

working aggressively to minimize effect of various shortages 
and managed to clock reasonable growth. In effect, the 
Division achieved decent revenue growth of 24% year on 
year.
 
Initiatives taken by the Company during lean period 

of last year to carry out all round improvements in the 
area of Productivity, Quality, Cost Reduction and People 
development were continued through this year also. 
Education of team members on World Class Manufacturing 
Practices, Lean Manufacturing, Training on identified Skill 
Gaps, Soft Skills etc by series of Virtual as well as Physical 
Learning Programs, both by the Internal and External 
Faculties were accelerated. Team members from both 

Staff and Associate category from various plants of the 
Division were involved in this exercise during this period. 
The Cost Management Project, code named ﬁRainbow 

Projectﬂ for focused cost reduction, launched last year is 
now matured with bringing in culture to look for avenues 

for cost saving projects and work on it. Strategy was made 
and its implementation started to develop new businesses 

to improve Capacity Utilization of certain underutilized 
Machines and Equipments. All these actions started yielding 

results in getting new business from the Company™s existing 
customers as well as new customers.
 
Looking at positive demand scenario in various sectors 
of Appliances like Washing Machines, Air Conditioners, 

Coolers and Refrigerators, segments where The Company 
has good presence, The Company invested in Capacity 

Expansion at various locations. This has started yielding 

results and will help the division going forward. Demand 
recovery in Auto sector also helped the Division for revenue 

growth with significant demand up stick in the Segments 
38
of the Company™s presence like Passenger Vehicles, and 
Commercial Vehicles although demand remained subdued 
in Two Wheelers. 
 
We expect semiconductors to be still in shortage for at 
least 6-8 months before it gets eased. This coupled with 

the uncertainties on Geo-Political Front will keep volatility 
in demand pattern for The Company™s customers and in 

effect to the Company although we expect it to be a short 
term phenomenon. However, The Company feels that 

Business scenario remains bullish in medium and long term 

with business friendly policies by the Govt., particularly 
PLI Scheme launched both in Automotive and Consumer 

Appliances sectors. The Company has planned need based 
Capacity Augmentation to handle the projected increased 

demand going forward. The new machines being planned 
are with the latest Technology, Energy efficient, and 
Robust Design for Excellent Quality and Repeatability. The 
Company is also working on cost efficient Automation.
 
The Company continues to enjoy Excellent Overall Rating by 

its Customers as it either meets or exceeds their expectations. 
The Company is considered as one of the most reliable 

suppliers in its area of expertise by the customers. This has 
helped the Division to get extra business from its customers 
whenever other suppliers failed to supply. Division is 

continuously striving to excel in all Operational Parameters 
as its culture. It helps the Company to remain cost efficient 
in this fiercely competitive supply chain to OEM Customers.
4.3.
2
 
MATERIAL HANDLING PRODUCTS
 
The year under review began with uncertainty and ambiguity. 

In most of the Indian states panic and gloom was prevalent 
due to incessant increase in COVID cases and subsequent 
lock downs. The industrial business activity was also affected 
with sentiments down and low at the beginning, but with 
rapid Govt. actions and wide vaccination, situation started 
improving in majority of sectors before close of the first 
quarter. The Year also witnessed highly fluctuating Polymer 

prices having direct impact on business of the Division. 
 
Even in the atmosphere of subdued activities in the first half 

of the year (which was more pronounced in Automobile, 
Engineering, Textiles and White goods), Company™s 
Materials Handling Products Division stood its ground firmly 
and registered impressive Growth both in terms of Volume 
and Revenue.
 
Notwithstanding the adverse effects of closures and 

restrictions owing to pandemic, MHD™s industrial crates 
range grew 32% in revenue and 15% in volume terms. These 
industrial crates primarily cater to Industries Like automobile, 
Engineering, white goods and E-commerce.
 
With very positive vibes visible in Automobile & engineering 

spaces, with major Auto OEM™s marching ahead with 

expansion in Capacities for Electric Vehicles, Many 
companies are also encouraged by Union Govt. incentives, 

new activities and new launches. These Industries are in 

fact drivers of demand for MHD™s Industrial Crates. These 
new launches will also give an impetus to the Company™s 

consistent sales efforts for growth and consolidation.
 
Your Company is constantly improving and optimising the 

existing range of Products and poised for introduction of 
newer models for industrial Electric Vehicle space during 
the current year.
 
The Company™s constant focus to enhance customer 
reach, service and educating the targeted audiences for 

both injection and roto pallets have given positive results, 
which has also helped surge in Exports during the year 
under review. Demand for one time use export pallets 
has increased and The Company has registered impressive 
growth both in Injection moulded regular repeated use 
pallets as well as one time use export pallets. 
 
The Company is consistently engaging with its diverse 

industrial customers to gauge and understand their industry 
and application specific needs of Pallets and developing new 

models both for one time and repeated use . New models 
for advanced Storage systems are about to be launched in 

the first quarter itself. If specifics fit into place, the Company 
shall be exploring the launch of a few more models in the 
coming year.
 
Roto Pallets which are regular in demand especially by 

Pharma and Foods industry besides the custom made models 
which are required for specific needs, have posted excellent 

results and grown by 50% in revenue and over 27% in 
volume terms. The Company is expanding the roto moulding 
Pallets and other products infrastructure at its Jadcherla 
(Telangana) Unit to cater to the demand of customers 

based at southern states. This will start operating by April 
this year. The division will continue introducing new Roto 

Pallets models at Gadegaon, Kharagpur and Jadcherla units 
to meet specific requirements of the Company™s customers.
 
The dairy segment in the Country is growing at a steady 

pace every year. Though the Company caters to some select 
quality conscious customers, its growth in this segment is 
a reflection of Industry growth as the Company has grown 

around 90% in value terms and around 60% in volume 
terms. The Company is confident that momentum of growth 
will continue in coming years as the Company expands its 
business in South and Western states.
 
In space of E-commerce and retail. which is constantly 

consolidating its presence in the country, your Company is 
slowly and steadily becoming a favourite of top E-commerce 
and Retail players. Recently introduced crate models suiting 
E- commerce and retails operations have all been successful 
registering growth of over 50% in volume terms 
 
In last two years, your Company has observed a marked shift 

in demand pattern for Dustbins. The earlier, roto dustbins 
models were being replaced by highly cost effective Injection 
moulded dustbins. The Division, recognising this shift, 
introduced five new injection dustbin models last year and 
has been able to double up the sales in volume terms. 
 
The Company has ambitious plans to at least triple the 

sales of injection dustbins from the present volumes more 
so after observing the heightened activities in many states 
in the country, for Swachh Bharat Mission, which could not 
be actively promoted for last two years owing to Pandemic.
 
The soft drink and Beverages segment also suffered a pause 

of almost two years. This year however it has started gearing 
up. While keeping our relationship with major players intact, 
The Company has shown impressive results in bottle crates 
range as well. The Company expects to double the sales 
volume during the current year in this segment.
 
There are a few pain areas too. In fisheries crates market, 

the Company did not grow and lost some volume. Due to 
two successive hurricanes in Coastal areas there has been 
serious disruption in Fisheries sector and overall market 
for crates shrunk last year. The Company™s fisheries jumbo 
crate models are highly appreciated for their unmatched 

quality, service and the Company is confident to achieve 
encouraging numbers & growth in this segment during the 
current year. 
 
In F&V crates market where the Company continues to 

serve only select quality conscious customers and mostly 
refrain from selling to mass markets which are a buzzed 
39
with substandard quality. During the year under review the 
Company did not grow in this market but managed to keep 
its customer base intact. Company is hopeful of renewed 

growth in this segment during the current year.
 
The Company is highly focussed to constantly improve its 
product quality and the level of timely delivery of products 
to its customers. The division has been able to add many 

new customers all over the country and would strive to 
continue enlarge itﬂs customer base.
 
To improve the Company™s market reach, the Company is 

regularly strengthening its sales force and adding channel 

network partners to cover unrepresented areas. The 
Company is vigilant to enhance the capacities to meet the 

demand and introduce new models to augment the growth 

momentum of the division.
4.3.3.
 
COMPOSITE LPG CYLINDER
 
Persistent efforts by the Company has yielded positive 
results for this division. Division has recovered the market 
and a great boost is received by steady repeat orders from 
its existing customers overseas. 
 
All technical issues of the past have been satisfactorily resolved 

and division has not received any customer complaint during 
the year under review. There is continuous flow of enquiries 
from new overseas customers. Most heartening event for the 
division was the successful introduction of Composite LPG 
cylinders in the domestic market.
 
The Company has successfully participated and received 
Letter of Intent (LOI) for supply of 7,35,186 Nos of 10 Kg. 
capacity Composite LPG Cylinders valuing about 
R
 170 
Crores from Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL), one of 
the leading government oil marketing Company. Supplies 
have commenced from March, 2022 and bulk of the order 
quantity shall be delivered in the current year.
 
The volume of business is large which surpasses the existing 
installed capacity. The Company has taken effective steps to 

install a new plant on a war footing in the same premises to 
double the capacity and the same is likely be operational by 
November, 2022, which will enable the Company to make 
around 1 Million Nos per year.
 
The Company is balancing orders from existing and new 

customers to provide excellent quality Composite LPG 
cylinders in international and domestic markets and 
prospects for the division look promising.
4.4.
 
PACKAGING PRODUCTS
4.4.1
 
Packaging films
 
 
Performance Films Division (PFD) 
 
The Performance Films Division has recorded 22% growth 
in Volume and about 49% growth in Value. 
 
The Total sale achieved was 9514 MT as against 7801 MT 

in the corresponding previous year. 
 
During Covid period, there was a requirement of more 
hygienic product/ packaging and therefore automation 
was a logical choice where Packaging played a Major Role. 

Therefore, usage of Barrier Packaging was essential in Edible 

Oil & Dairy industry and had a growth of 11% in Volume. 
Bag/Pouch sales increased by 40% in volume with support 

from increased Bag/Pouch making capacity. 
 
Exports have shown positive growth of 2806 tons as against 
1343 tons in the preceding year. Positive response from 
Middle East, Africa and other European countries made 

exports grow by 111% in volume. Other markets are now 
being explored in Europe and USA. 
 
The Division remains optimistic for growth in the current 

year. The customer base will grow due to Company™s quality 
commitment and excellent service. 
 
The Company expects to achieve volume and value growth 
in this business during the current year due to increase in 

its customer base in India and abroad. This has been made 
possible due to increase in the production capacity with 

improved product mix. 
4.4.2
 
Protective Packaging Division
 
Overall
 
Turnover of the division was about 30%higher in value 
terms & 7% higher in volume terms in FY2021-22 over 

previous year in spite of Covid impact in Q1, this has been 
achieved due to good demand and proper planning from 
sales & manufacturing. Due to high volatility of raw material 
prices, the division was unable to pass on the burden of 

increased raw material prices fully to it™s customers impacting 
Operating Profit Margins of the division.
 
PROTEC, CIVIL & INSULATION Business
 
Division continues to focus on various new products, 

new applications and customised solutions. Increasing its 

distribution reach and adding new customers to its portfolio 

and reviving business with old customers remain priority. The 
same has resulted in decent growth in the business both in 
value as well as volume terms.
 
Consistent & growing demand for XLPE was witnessed in 

both domestic and exports. Expansion work has already 
started at Hosur and the division is also planning an 
expansion at Malanpur in the current fiscal year.
 
Consumer Products | Retail Business Vertical
 
Consumer Product business of the division has achieved 

growth of 25% in value terms in FY2021-22 as against 

FY2020-21. The vertical has added few new Distributors and 
now its total Distributors strength is 205. In Retail segment 
with continuous new enrolment of retailers its total Retailers 
strength stands at 5508. 
 
The division has started business with CSD in Sept 2021. 

Division is looking forward to a good business in CSD 
Business. 
 
Exports
 
The Company™s Exports division has achieved an export sale 
of USD 3.759 Million. The division is in process of reaching 
out to more markets and its export team is working on the 
same. Buyers have reduced their dependency on China and 
exploring opportunities with India . Division has started the 

DCDL certification process for Dubai Œ which is mandatory 
for getting registered its HVAC products for major projects. 
During the year under review Company has added several 
new customers in Middle East. 
 
NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT | INNOVATION | 
TECHNOLOGY
 
New Product Development: 
 
The Company is committed to improve its efficiency. For 
XLPE the Company has achieved better product quality and 
cost optimization. By doing so there has been improvement 

in the yield ratio.
 
The Company developed range of new products for 
Decathlon for their India market Retail Sales. For their 
International markets Decathlon have approved a few SKUs. 

The Company is working with Decathlon to develop various 
products based on their requirements. 
40
 
The Company has developed Cricket bats & Balls duly 
approved for quality by ISI & BIS. Currently company is 
supplying these items to Decathlon. 
 
To stay dominant and innovative in foam market, the 
Division has added several new products for generating new 

business and adding more customers. 
 
Modified design of Yoga mat embossing machine has been 
installed at Hosur, due to which productivity has increased 
considerably and it has also reduced thickness of the loss 
significantly. 
 
Technology
 
Continuous auto-punching machine along with online kiss 
cutting facility design developed in-house and installed at 

Urse Unit II which has benefitted in Manpower reduction 
and wastage reduction. 
 
Density range in Litecell section has also been increased 

which has helped to offer new range of products in markets 

such as Yoga Brick and Cricket Ball.
 
Development team has worked on XLPE product formulation 
and laminates to develop a new grade of XLPE, which has 

passed the required criteria of ASTM standard E-84 Class 
A rating with FSI and SDI Value 25/50, which is a main 

requirement to start Export business of Insulation material 
in UAE.
 
 
New Initiatives
 
Expansion 
 
The Company has gone ahead with XLPE and Capcell 

capacity expansion in this fiscal year, hardware orders are 

placed and Commercial production will start from Aug 2022 
onwards at Hosur.
 
To capture the roll joining business opportunity in a profitable 

manner, The Company has developed roll joining in eco 
Œ grade by using recycle material. The product has been 
approved and commercial production started. Customers 
are satisfied with the products. 
 
The division is working strongly by using alternate energy 

source like solar & wind. Significant savings of power cost 
has been achieved at Hosur unit & Malanpur. Installation is 
in process at Urse Plant. 
 
The Company has started work on express feeder for 
uninterrupted electricity supply to Urse plant. This will help 
in reduction of wastage and increase in productivity.
 
Expansion of several high value added products has been 

undertaken which will be completed by 1
st
 half of this FY. 
4.4.3
 
CROSS LAMINATED FILM
 
The Business of Cross Laminated Film & Products suffered 

a de-growth of 18.36% in volume terms during the year 
under review.
 
The second wave of Pandemic & the resultant localized 

lockdowns adversely affected the demand supply chain 

during the first quarter. The business of XF division was 
impacted the most due to one of its product tarpaulin being 

seasonal in nature with peak season between April to June. 

The sales were down by 23.76% in volume terms in first 
quarter compared to the same quarter in the preceding 

previous year.
 
The current year (FY22-23) looks promising with pandemic 
in control & normalcy being restored. SKYMET has also 
predicted normal rainfall in the year 2022 & ruled out 

occurrence of El Nino. Good monsoon season is expected 
to accelerate growth in agricultural output. The Company™s 
products are finding penetration in several agricultural 

segments. This augurs well for the future.
 
During the year the division has successfully carried out 
expansion of its capacity from 27000 TPA to 30000 TPA 
which is fully operational since March, 2022.
 
Though the overall sales have gone down, the sale of 

fabricated made-up products, other than Tarpaulins, has 
shown up a quantum jump. The Company has a state of the 
art fabrication facility to exclusively make these products at 
Halol. In the current year the thrust will be on promoting 
non Œ Tarpaulin products on a large scale. The Company has 

plans to appoint many new dealers / retailers to extend reach 
of these products to every nook & corner of the country. With 

extensive reach & introduction of new range of products in 

this category the Company aims to substantially increase the 
share of these value added products in the overall business.
 
The Company is planning to introduce new designs for its 

economy model of tarpaulins sold under the brand ‚Supreme 
Sathi™. It is expected to add value & differentiate it from 
competitor™s product.
 
Exports were down at the backdrop of steep increase in 

freight rates & Russia Ukraine crisis. The silver lining is that 
the Company has been able to make breakthrough in new 
markets during the year which could generate good export 
business in coming years. The thrust in the coming year 
will be on promoting non-Tarpaulin products, finding new 

applications, targeting new customers in existing markets 
& reaching new markets. To achieve these objectives, the 
Company is planning to take part in several exhibitions to 
show case its products. 
 
The Cross Plastic Film Project which was derailed due to 

pandemic is finally back on track. The drawings of various 
equipments are in the final stage of completion & orders 
for equipments may be placed very soon. The Company 
expects production of Cross Plastic to start in the first half 
of the next financial year. 
5.
 
FINANCE
1.
 
A brief on borrowing levels and finance cost is given 
 
 
below -:
 
1.1
 
Summary
Particulars
Measure
F.Y. 
2021-22
F.Y. 
2020-21
Net borrowing level at the 
end of the year
R
 in 
crores
Surplus 
of 
517.71 
Surplus 
of 
759.46 
Average Monthly Borrowings
R
 in 
crores
 Surplus 
of 
308.52
 Surplus 
of 
247.94
Interest & finance charges
R
 in 
crores
5.15
22.05
Average cost of borrowings 

at the end of the year
% p.a.
 N.A.
N.A.
Financial cost as a % of 

Turnover
0.07%
 0.35%
Interest Cover
No. of 
Times
241
 58
Total Net Debt : Equity Ratio
 N.A.
 N.A.
1.2
 
During the year under review the Company continued to 
remain debt free. The Company™s Capex and its working 

capital requirements have been largely funded through 

internal accruals. The excess cash accruals during the year 
41
have been judiciously deployed from time to time in safe and 
secure Investment avenues with the objective of generating 
optimal returns while maintaining the assurance of liquidity 

at short notice.
2.
 
Working Capital Borrowing
 
2.1
 
During the year under review, The Company continued 

its Multiple Banking Arrangement (MBA) with 9 banks, to 
meet its working capital requirements at optimum cost. 

The Company is thankful to its bankers for granting on 
fully unsecured basis, aggregate working capital facilities 

of 
R
 1,445.90 crores which have been utilised moderately 
during the year. This shows the confidence reposed by all 
the Bankers on the Company and its management and their 
trust & commitment to provide unstinted support even 

during the challenging times. The Company™s established 

track record, robust operating margins, strong key financial 
ratios, absence of any long-term debt and adequate liquidity 

surplus, have enabled the Bankers to extend the favourable 
terms to the Company. 
2.2
 
The Company intends to use its surplus cash to continue 
to grow organically, while being open to explore the 
opportunities to grow inorganically through rightful 
acquisitions.
2.3
 
Increase in working capital utilisation
 
During the year under review the Company witnessed 
wide fluctuations in the Raw Material (Polymer) Prices. 
From initial trend of softening polymer prices, there was a 
steep increase in the Raw Material Prices by around 35% 
till mid-November. Then again prices fell by around 18% 
from mid-November till end January 2022 & again there 
was an increase of around 7% to 8% from February till end 

of March 2022. The same resulted in the large Inventories 
and increased book debts with the Company However, in 
view of the healthy cash flows, the Company could utilise 
its cash accruals to meet the increased working capital 
requirements as well as also plan its material procurement 

optimally, which resulted in uninterrupted production and 
supplies to its customers. The Company™s Working Capital 
Management involves well-organised processes which 
facilitate continuous monitoring & control over receivables, 
inventories & other parameters.
2.4
 
During the year under review, the Rupee also remained 
volatile against dollar. However due to its prudent and 
consistent hedging policy the Company has largely mitigated 

the risk arising out of Foreign Currency fluctuations and 
optimised its hedging costs.
3. 
 
Dealers™ Financing 
 
The Dealers™ Finance Scheme (DFS) provided by the bank 
to our Channel Partners are getting well recognised amongst 
them. During the year a few additional Channel partners 
have joined the Scheme, in view of competitive rate of 

interest & unsecured facilities offered by the bank. Seasonal 
/ peak business requirements are also being offered by the 

Bank, by providing temporary incremental limits. Extended 
credit terms were provided to the Channel Partners in 

challenging times during Covid-19 Pandemic. These facilities 
have become very helpful to The Company™s channel 

partners to meet their Normal/Additional working capital 
requirements at a competitive interest rates.
4.
 
CRISIL Rating
 
As per the latest review conducted in the last quarter, (a) the 

Rating for the Company™s Short term bank facilities were 
reaffirmed at ﬁCRISIL A1+ﬂ rating by CRISIL (which is the 

highest rating for the Short term instruments) and (b) Rating 
for Long Term Bank facilities were upgraded from ﬁCRISIL 

AA Positive Outlookﬂ to ﬁCRISIL AA+ Stableﬂ. The rating 
reflects the improvement in the business risk profile, driven 

by healthy pick-up in Sales and operating margin, increasing 
contribution of Value-added products backed by industry 
leading market position across segments and robust financial 
risk profile. 
5.
 
Capital Expenditure
5.1.
 
Considering optimistic business growth potential, the 
Company has incurred Capital Expenditure (capex) of 
 
R
 259 crores, during the year under review. The entire 
capex has been incurred towards ramping up the capacities 
in plastic piping system, introduction of new products in 

various business segments, automation and replacing some 
old production equipment with new technology machines. 

Company has also incurred capex for increasing captive 
generation capacity of solar energy apart from balancing 
equipment at various locations. The entire capex has been 
funded through internal accruals only. 
5.2 
 
The Company has plans to commit capex of about 
R
 700 
Crores including carry forward commitments of 
R
 280 Crs. at 
the beginning of the year. The committed / proposed capex 

is primarily for -:
a)
 
To complete and put into operation the on- going 
project work at Assam to manufacture PVC Pipes and 
Roto & Blow Moulded products.
b)
 
Putting up a plastic product complex near Cuttack in 

Odisha & near Erode in Tamilnadu where work is going 
on in full swing. 1st phase at both the sites is likely to 
go into production by August-September, 2022.
c)
 
To double the capacity of Composite LPG cylinders to 1 
million pcs. Per annum at existing site at Halol, Gujarat.
d)
 
Establishing additional capacity to manufacture olefin 

Fittings and to put PEX Piping System at Jadcherla.
e)
 
Expanding capacities and product range of its bath 
fitting products at Puducherry.
f)
 
Adding varieties of new injection moulded fitting 
products in its plastic Piping products.
g)
 
To add new models of Injection moulded furniture, 

Crates & pallets in the Company™s range of furniture 
and Material Handling Products.
h)
 
To increase capacities of Industrial Component 
moulding at various locations in view of increased 
business opportunities.
i)
 
To add necessary equipment at its Protective Packaging 

and performance packaging division.
j)
 
To install Rooftop Solar energy generation plants at its 

various locations.
k)
 
To install balancing equipment at various locations.
6.
 
Cash Surplus
 
The Company envisages healthy liquidity surplus in view 

of better realizations, increased share of value added 
products & increase in its market reach across segments. The 
Company shall continue to meet all its Capex and working 
capital requirements from internal accruals and to remain 

debt-free in medium terms.
 
The Company™s persistent focus shall remain in, cost control 
and cost reduction, tight monitoring of working capital and 
better treasury Management through deployment of funds 

prudently.
42
6.
 
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM & RISK MITIGATION
 
The Company has adequate internal audit and control 
systems. Internal auditors comprising of professional firms 
of Chartered Accountants have been entrusted with the 
job to conduct regular internal audits and risk based audits 

at all units/ locations and report to the management the 
lapses, if any. Both internal auditors and statutory auditors 

independently evaluate the adequacy of internal control 

system. Based on the audit observations and suggestions, 
follow up, remedial measures are being taken including 

review and increase in the scope of coverage, if necessary. 

The Audit Committee of Directors, in its periodical meetings, 
review the adequacy of internal control systems and 

procedures and suggest areas of improvements.
 
The Company has undertaken a detailed exercise to revisit its 
control systems in technical and other non-financial areas to 

align them properly with Management Information Systems 
(MIS) to make MIS more efficient and result oriented. 
Information technology base created by the Company over 
the period is providing a very useful helping hand in the 
process. Needless to mention, that ensuring maintenance of 
proper accounting records, safeguarding assets against loss 
and misappropriation, compliance of applicable laws, rules 
and regulations and providing reasonable assurance against 
fraud and errors will continue to remain central point of the 

entire control systems.
 
 
Cybersecurity is a concern for everyone today, from 

organisations to individuals. Organizations focus on physical 
and information security, due to regulatory requirements, the 
value of data in the current times and the risks of a security 
compromise. 
 
The Company has its well-defined policy to protect the 

infrastructure and secure its information. The policy clearly 
stands to safeguard all information in the interest of the 
Company. The Company has a robust security mechanism 
designed to defend and protect its infrastructure from any 
external threat or vulnerability.
 
All applications, critical end points and servers have their 
backup scheduled automatically at regular intervals on 

to The Company NAS Appliance. Company™s Network is 
secured with ﬁEnterprise Edition Next Generation Firewallﬂ 
installed at its primary/production datacentre as well as 
secondary/DR datacentres. 
 
The Company uses robust endpoint protection EDR system 

and User™s access to data or appliance or Infrastructure is 
controlled with Authentication and Authorization using 
active directory (AD), which is a secured and standard 
method. Central Database has high availability; Disaster 
recovery is in place for SAP infrastructure with regular DR 
drills.
 
Keeping in mind the ever expanding cyber threat landscape, 

Company has designed a robust, 100% uptime and real-time 
monitoring. This includes state of the art technology, a multi-
vendor environment like Fortigate, Cisco, Citrix SD-WAN, 
HP-Aruba, and Nutanix.
 
Company has initiated projects on AI ML based SoC (Security 
operations Centre) while Network Operations Centre (NoC) 
is already functional. 
7.
 
HUMAN RESOURCES
 
The Company has been very proactive to support its entire 
work force at all the levels in best possible manner especially 
during the Covid-19 pandemic period. The Company 

has disbursed salaries and wages during entire lockdown 
period to its staff, associates and contract workforce. The 

Company has provided healthcare facilities and medical 
reimbursements to the employees who were infected 
with Covid Œ 19. It also supported financially by allowing 

disbursement of full salaries during the entire duration 

of medical treatment. Few of the casualties amongst the 
employees was a matter of great pain and concern. The 
Company has promised to take care of the children™s 
education apart from providing one-time financial assistance 
to the family of deceased employees.
 
The Company has also developed its infrastructure and 

facilities by which many employees are able to work from 
home. The Company has also advised all its sales force to 
travel through safest mode and take all precautions for safe 
and comfortable journey. This has helped the Company to 
continue to provide efficient services to all its stakeholders 
during the entire period marred by pandemic Covid-19.
 
The focus of your Company is to ensure that young talent 

is nurtured and mentored consistently, that rewards and 
recognition are commensurate with performance and that 
employees have the opportunity to develop and grow.
Human resource is considered as key to the future growth 

strategy of the Company and looks upon to focus its efforts 
to further align human resource policies, processes and 
initiatives to meet its business needs. In order to focus on 
keeping employees abreast of technological and technical 
developments, the Company provides opportunity for 
training and learning within the country and abroad. Your 
Company strongly believes in fostering a culture of trust and 
mutual respect in all its employees and seeks to ensure that 
core values and principles of the company are understood 
by all and are the reference point in all people matters.
 
Industrial relations at all the units and locations are cordial. 
C
AUTIONARY
 S
TATEMENT
Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis describing 
the Company™s objectives, expectations or predictions may be 
forward looking within the meaning of applicable securities, 
laws and regulations. Actual results may differ materially from 

those expressed in the statement. Important factors that would 
influence the Company™s operations include cost of raw materials, 
tax laws, interest and power cost and economic developments 

particularly in view of ongoing pandemic COVID 19 and such 
other factors within the country and the international economic 
and financial developments.
43
Corporate Governance
The Directors present the Company™s Report on Corporate Governance for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022.
1.
 
PHILOSOPHY OF COMPANY ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 
Good Governance ensures adoption of best business practices, and accountability of the person™s in-charge of the Company™s 
operations. Your Directors are committed to good Governance practices and the Company has been sharing all important information 
about its various business segments and operations of the Company through Quarterly Results, Press release, Chairman™s Statement, 

Annual Reports, Investors™ meet with Management, TV interview of Managing/executive Directors and Telephonic Con calls with 
Investors by the Management. Further as required by the Listing Agreement, Report on Corporate Governance is given below.
2.
 
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
 
The Company™s Governance Structure comprises a dual layer, the Board of Directors and the Committees of the Board at the apex 
level and the Management Team at an operational level. The Board lays down the overall Corporate Objectives and provides direction 
and independence to the Management Team to achieve these objectives within a given framework. This professional management 
process results in building a conducive environment for sustainable business operations and value creation for all stakeholders
.
 
The Board of Directors and the Committees of the Board play a fundamental role in upholding and furthering the principals of 
good governance which translates into ethical business practices, transparency and accountability in the Company™s dealing with 
its stakeholders and in the utilization of resources for creating sustainable growth to the benefit of all the stakeholders. Th
e Board 
within the framework of law discharges its fiduciary duties of safeguarding the interests of the Company. The Boards composition 
and size is robust and enables it to deal competently with emerging business development issue and exercise independent judgment.
 
Committee of Directors assists the Board of Directors in discharging its duties and responsibilities. The Board has constituted the 

following Committees viz. Audit Committee, Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Nomination & Remuneration Committee, 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee, Risk Management Committee which are mandatory Committees. The Business 

Responsibility and Sustainability Committee is also constituted which is a non-mandatory Committee.
 
The Management Structure for the day-to-day business operations and management of the Company is in place with appropriate 
delegation of powers and responsibilities.
3.
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRACTICE
 
The Company maintains the highest standard of Corporate Governance; it is the Company™s constant endeavour to adopt the 
best Corporate Governance Practice.
4.
 
ROLE OF COMPANY SECRETARY IN OVERALL GOVERNANCE PROCESS
 
The Company Secretary plays a key role in ensuring that the Board and Committees procedures are followed and regularly reviewed. 

The Company Secretary ensures that all relevant information, details and documents are made available to the Directors and 
Senior Management for effective decision making at the Meetings. The Company Secretary is primarily responsible for assisting and 
advising the Board in conducting the affairs of the Company, to ensure the compliances with applicable statutory requirements, to 
provide guidance to Directors and to facilitate convening of Meetings. The Company Secretary interfaces between the Management 
and regulatory authority for governance matters.
5.
 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
The Company has a broad-based Board of Directors, constituted in compliance with the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements), Regulations 2015 ﬁListing Regulationsﬂ and is in accordance with best practices in 
Corporate Governance.
 
As on 31
st
 March, 2022, the Board comprised of 8 Directors viz Managing Director, Two Executive Directors and Five Non-Executive 
Directors out of which four Directors are Independent Directors. The Chairman of the Company / Board is a Non-Executive Director.
 
a)
 
Composition and Categories of Board of Directors:
Name of the 
Directors
Category
No. of outside 
Directorship*
No. of Committees 
Chairpersonship / Membership 
held including Supreme
Public
Private
Chairperson
Members
Shri B L Taparia
Promoter / Non-Executive Chairman
2
1
Œ
Œ
Shri M P Taparia
Promoter / Managing Director
2
1
1
-
Shri S J Taparia
Promoter / Executive Director
2
1
Œ
2
Shri V K Taparia
Promoter / Executive Director
1
1
Œ
Œ
Shri R. Kannan
Independent / Non-Executive Director
1
Œ
1
2
Shri Rajeev M. Pandia
Independent / Non-Executive Director
6
Œ
4
3
Shri Sarthak Behuria
Independent / Non-Executive Director
2
Œ
Œ
2
Ms. Ameeta Parpia
Independent / Non-Executive Director
5
Œ
4
6
44
 
Committee positions only of the Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee in Public Limited Companies 
have been considered. 
 
*Directorship in public and private companies includes Section 8 Companies.
b)
 
Attendance of Directors at the Board Meetings held during 2021-2022 and the last Annual General Meeting held on 
29th June, 2021.
 
During the Financial Year 2021-2022 the Board met on six occasions virtually/physical Meeting i.e. 3
rd
 May, 2021, 29
th 
June, 2021, 21
st
 July, 2021, 16
th
 September, 2021, 22
nd
 October, 2021 and 24
th
 January, 2022. The gap between any two 
meetings is not more than 120 days.
Name of the Directors
Category
Meetings held 
during the tenure 
of the Directors
Meetings 
Attended
Attendance 
at the last 
AGM
Shri B L Taparia
Promoter / Non-Executive Chairman
6
6
Yes
Shri M. P. Taparia
Promoter / Managing Director
6
6
Yes
Shri S. J. Taparia
Promoter / Executive Director
6
6
Yes
Shri V. K. Taparia
Promoter / Executive Director
6
6
Yes
Shri R Kannan
Independent / Non-Executive Director
6
6
No
Shri Rajeev M. Pandia
Independent / Non-Executive Director
6
6
Yes
Shri Sarthak Behuria 
Independent / Non-Executive Director
6
6
Yes
Ms. Ameeta Parpia 
Independent / Non-Executive Director
6
6
Yes
Shri B. V. Bhargava*
Independent / Non-Executive Director
4
4
Yes
Shri Y. P. Trivedi*
Independent / Non-Executive Director
4
4
Yes
 
* Term of Shri B.V. Bhargava and Shri Y.P. Trviedi as an Independent Directors Completed on 16
th
 September, 2021.
 
c)
 
Details of Directorship in other Listed Entities and category of Directorship
Name of the 
Directors
Name of other Listed Entities
Category of Directorship
Shri B L Taparia
Supreme Petrochem Limited
Non-Executive - Non Independent Director
Shri M. P. Taparia
Supreme Petrochem Limited
Non-Executive - Non Independent Director, Chairperson
Shri S. J. Taparia
Supreme Petrochem Limited
Non-Executive - Non Independent Director
Shri V. K. Taparia
NIL
NA
Shri R Kannan
Supreme Petrochem Limited
Non-Executive - Independent Director
Shri Rajeev M. Pandia
GRP Limited
Non-Executive - Independent Director
Excel Industries Limited
Non-Executive - Independent Director
Thirumalai Chemicals Limited
Non-Executive - Independent Director
Ultramarine & Pigments Limited
Non-Executive - Independent Director
Supreme Petrochem Limited
Non-Executive - Independent Director
Shri Sarthak Behuria
BLS International Services Limited
Non-Executive - Independent Director
Ms. Ameeta Parpia
Supreme Petrochem Limited
Non-Executive - Independent Director
Prism Johnson Limited
Non-Executive - Independent Director
Hathway cable and Datacom Limited
Non-Executive - Independent Director
6.
 
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN DIRECTORS
 
Out of 8 Directors 4 Directors are related Directors viz : Shri B. L. Taparia, Non-Executive Chairman, Shri M. P. Taparia, Managing 
Director, Shri S. J. Taparia, Executive Director and Shri V. K. Taparia, Executive Director. None of the other Directors are related 
with each other.
7.
 
EQUITY SHAREHOLDING OF THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS IN THE COMPANY AS ON 31
ST
 MARCH, 2022:
Sr. No.
Name of the Non-Executive Director
No. of Shares
1)
Shri B. L. Taparia
317398
2)
Shri R Kannan
7410
3)
Shri Rajeev M. Pandia
Nil
4)
Shri Sarthak Behuria
Nil
5)
Ms Ameeta Parpia
3000
45
8.
 
THE DETAILS OF FAMILIARISATION PROGRAMMES IMPARTED TO INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
 
Brief Terms of reference:
 
An Appropriate induction programme for new Directors and ongoing familiarization with respect to the Business / working of 
the Company for all Directors is a major contributor for meaningful Board Level deliberations and sound business decisions.
 
The Company has adopted a structured programme for orientation of Independent Directors at the time of their joining so as 

to familiarize them with the Company™s operations, business, industry and environment in which it functions and the regulatory 

environment applicable to it. The Company updates the Board Members on a continuing basis on any significant changes therein 
and provides them an insight to their expected roles and the responsibilities so as to be in a position to take well-informed and 

timely decisions and contribute significantly to the Company.
 
The Company through its Managing Director / Executive Directors / Senior Management Personnel makes presentations regularly 

to the Board, Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee or such other Committees, as may be required, covering, inter 

alia, business environmental, business strategies, operations review, quarterly and annual results, budgets, review of Internal 
Audit Report and Action Taken, statutory compliance, risk management, etc.
 
The details of familiarization programmes held for the Independent Directors is provided on the Company™s website.
9.
 
MATRIX/TABLE CONTAINING SKILLS, EXPERTISE AND COMPETENCIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
 
The Board Members are from diversified areas having the required knowledge. Competency, skills, and experience to effectively 
discharge their responsibilities. The range of experience of the Board Members includes in the areas of Plastics, Petrochemicals, 
Banking &, Finance, Taxation and Legal. The Company has identified and broadly categorised its Core Skills, Expertise and 
Competencies as mentioned hereunder: Matrix/Table of Core Skills, Expertise and Competencies of Board of Directors as Whole;
Particulars
Detailed List of Core Skills, Expertise and 
Competencies
Name of Directors who have Skills, Expertise and Competence
Shri B.L. 
Taparia
Shri M.P. 
Taparia 
Shri S.J. 
Taparia 
Shri V.K. 
Taparia 
Shri R 
Kannan
Shri R M 
Pandia 
Shri 
Sarthak 
Behuria
Ms. 
Ameeta 
Parpia
Core Skills
Strategic policy formulation and advising
Regulatory framework knowledge
Financial performance
Advising on Risk mitigation and Compliance 
requirements
Expertise
Knowledge of Petrochemicals
Commercial acumen 
Able to guide in building the right 

environment for Human Assets Development
Competencies
Strategic Leadership
Execution of policies framed by the Board
Identifying the growth areas for expanding the 

business in India and outside India
Advising on Business Risks & environment.
10.
 
CONFIRMATION OF BOARD REGARDING INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
 
Board of Directors confirms that the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions specified in the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended from time to time and are Independent of the Management.
11.
 
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS MEETING:
 
In Compliance with the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 25 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements), 

Regulations, 2015, the Independent Directors Meeting of the Company was held on 22
nd
 January, 2022. Independent Directors 
Meeting considered the performance of Non-Independent Directors and Board as whole, reviewed the performance of Chairman 
of the Company, taking into account the views of Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors and assessed the quality, 

quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the Company Management and the Board.
 
Shri Rajeev M Pandia is the Chairman of Independent Directors Meeting.
 
Attendance of Independent Directors in Independent Directors Meeting:
Directors
Meetings held during Year
Meetings Attended
Shri Rajeev M. Pandia
1
1
Shri R. Kannan
1
1
Shri Sarthak Behuria 
1
1
Ms. Ameeta Parpia 
1
1
46
12.
 
AUDIT COMMITTEE:
 
The Company has an independent Audit Committee. The composition, procedure, Role / Function of the committee complies 
with the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 as well as those of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. The brief terms of reference of the Audit Committee includes the following:











 
During the financial year 2021-22, Audit Committee meetings were held on 2
nd
 May, 2021, 23
rd
 June, 2021, 20
th
 July, 2021, 
 
25
th
 August, 2021, 22
nd
 October, 2021, 27
th
 November, 2021, 21
st
 December, 2021, 24
th
 January, 2022 and 26
th
 February, 2022.
 
Composition and Attendance of Members at the Meetings of the Audit Committee held during 2021-2022:
Members
Category
Meetings held during the 
tenure of the Directors
Meetings 
attended
Shri Rajeev M. Pandia
(Chairman w.e.f. 17
th
 September, 2021)
Independent / Non-Executive Director
9
9
Ms. Ameeta Parpia 
Independent / Non-Executive Director
9
9
Shri R Kannan#
Independent / Non-Executive Director
5
5
Shri Y. P. Trivedi (Chairman up to 16
th
 
September, 2021) *
Independent / Non-Executive Director
4
4
 
* Term of Shri Y.P. Trivedi as a Non- Executive Independent Director completed on 16
th
 September, 2021.
 
 # Shri R Kannan inducted as member of Audit Committee w.e.f 16
th
 September, 2021.
13.
 
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
 
(i)
 
Brief Terms of reference:




with the criteria laid down in this policy.








Management.

performance is clear and meets appropriate performance benchmarks.





notification, amendment or modification, as may be applicable.

 
During the financial year 2021-22 Nomination and Remuneration Committee meetings were held on 13
th
 April, 2021, 
21
st
 October, 2021, 22
nd
 January, 2022 and 31
st
 March, 2022.
 
(ii)
 
Composition
Members
Category
Meetings held
Meetings attended
Shri Sarthak Behuria (Chairman 
w.e.f to 17
th
 September, 2021)
Independent / Non-Executive Director
3
3
Shri R.M. Pandia 
Independent / Non-Executive Director
4
4
Ms. Ameeta Parpia (Member w.e.f 

to 17
th
 September, 2021)
Independent / Non-Executive Director
3
3
Shri Y. P. Trivedi Œ (Chairman up to 

16
th
 September, 2021)
Independent / Non-Executive Director
1
1
Shri B. V. Bhargava Œ (Member up 

to 16
th
 September, 2021)
Independent / Non-Executive Director
1
1
47
 
(iii)
 
Performance evaluation criteria for Independent Directors:




Business?
























reporting and in the industry and market conditions?





 
(iv)
 
Nomination and Remuneration Policy:
 
In accordance with Section 178 of the Act, the Committee has framed a Nomination and Remuneration Policy and the 
same is set out as Annexure IV (A) to the Board Report.
  
The details relating to the remuneration of Directors is as under:
 
(v)
 
Remuneration Paid/Provided to Directors during 2021-22
    
(
r 
in Crores)
Sr 
No.
Names
Category
Sitting 
Fees
Salary & 
Perquisites
Commission
Total
1
Shri B L Taparia
Promoter / Non-Executive Chairman
0.07 
     -   
0.10 
0.17 
2
Shri M P Taparia
Promoter / Managing Director
     -   
4.18 
11.15 
15.33 
3
Shri S J Taparia
Promoter / Executive Director
     -   
4.40 
11.15 
15.55 
4
Shri V K Taparia
Promoter / Executive Director
     -   
4.22 
11.15 
15.37 
5
Shri R Kannan
Independent / Non-Executive Director
0.12 
     -   
0.10 
0.22 
6
Shri Rajeev M. Pandia
Independent / Non-Executive Director
0.17 
     -   
0.10 
0.27 
7
Shri Sarthak Behuria
Independent / Non-Executive Director
0.09 
     -   
0.10 
0.19 
8
Ms. Ameeta Parpia
Independent / Non-Executive Director
0.15 
     -   
0.10 
0.25 
9
Shri B V Bhargava
Independent / Non-Executive Director
0.04 
     -   
0.04 
0.08 
10
Shri Y P Trivedi
Independent / Non-Executive Director
0.08 
     -   
0.04 
0.12 
Total
0.72 
12.80 
34.03 
47.55 
 
* Term of Shri B.V. Bhargava and Shri Y.P. Trviedi as an Independent Directors Completed on 16
th
 September, 2021.
14.
 
STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE
 
The Company has constituted Stakeholders Relationship Committee of the Board of Directors to look into the transmission of 

Equity Shares /issuance of duplicate Equity Share certificates, complaints received from the Shareholders of the Company and 
other allied connected matters.
 
During the financial year 2021-22 Stakeholders Relationship Committee meeting was held on 15
th
 June, 2021, 14
th
 September, 
2021, 10
th
 November, 2021 and 14
th
 March, 2022.
 
a)
 
Composition:
Members
Category
Meetings held
Meetings attended
Shri Rajeev M Pandia (Chairman 
w.e.f 17
th
 September, 2021)
Independent / Non-Executive Director
4
4
Shri Ramanathan Kannan#
Independent / Non-Executive Director
2
2
Ms. Ameeta Parpia 
Independent / Non-Executive Director
4
4
Shri Y.P. Trivedi* Œ (Chairman up 
to 16
th
 September, 2021) 
Independent / Non-Executive Director
2
2
 
* The term of Shri Y.P. Trivedi as a Non-Executive Independent Director completed on 16
th
 September, 2021.
 
# Shri Ramanathan Kannan inducted as member of the Committee w.e.f 16
th
 September, 2021.
 
b)
 
Compliance Officer:
 
Shri R. J. Saboo VP (Corporate Affairs) & Company Secretary is the Compliance Officer for complying with requirements of 

Companies Act, Securities laws and listing Agreements with Stock Exchanges.
c)
 
During the year, the company received 21 complaints / correspondence from Shareholders regarding non-receipt of Share 
Certificates / issuance of Duplicate Share Certificates / Dividend Warrants etc. and all have been resolved.
48
15.
 
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE
 
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee is constituted pursuant to section 135 of the Companies Act 2013. The Corporate 
Social Responsibility Committee of the Board consists of the following Directors as Members.
 
During the financial year 2021-22 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee meeting was held on 1
st
 May, 2021.
Name
Meetings held
Meetings attended
Shri R. Kannan - Chairman
1
1
Shri B. L. Taparia
1
1
Shri M. P. Taparia
1
1
 
Terms of reference:







 
Submit to the Board half-yearly / yearly report giving status of the CSR activities undertaken, expenditure incurred and such 
other details as may be required by it.
16.
 
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
 
The Board of Directors of the Company constituted a Risk Management Committee of the Board comprising Shri M. P. Taparia, 
Managing Director, Shri Rajeev M. Pandia, Independent Director, Shri R. Kannan, Independent Director, Shri Sarthak Behuria, 
Independent Director and Shri P. C. Somani, CFO. The Chairman of the Committee is Shri M. P. Taparia.
 
During the financial year 2021-22 Risk Management Committee was held on 29
th
 June, 2021 and 23
rd
 December, 2021.
Members
Category
Meetings held
Meetings attended
Shri M. P. Taparia Œ Chairman
Promoter / Managing Director
2
2
Shri Rajeev M. Pandia
Independent / Non-Executive Director
2
2
Shri R. Kannan
Independent / Non-Executive Director
2
2
Shri Sarthak Behuria*
Independent / Non-Executive Director
1
1
Shri P. C. Somani
Chief Financial Officer
2
2
 
*Shri Sarthak Behuria inducted as members of the Committee w.e.f. 17th September, 2021.
17.
 
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE NOW RENAMED AS BUSINESS RESPONSIBLITY AND SUSTAINABILITY 
 
 
COMMITTEE W.E.F 29
TH
 APRIL, 2022
 
The Board of Directors of the Company constituted a Business Responsibility Committee of the Board comprising Shri M.P. 
Taparia, Managing Director, Shri P.C. Somani, Chief Financial Officer and Shri R.J. Saboo, VP (Corporate Affairs) & Company 
Secretary, to assess the various initiatives forming part of the BR performance of the Company, on a periodic basis.
 
During the financial year 2021-22 Business Responsibility Committee was held on 1
st
 May, 2021.
Members
Category
Meetings held
Meetings attended
Shri M. P. Taparia Œ Chairman
Promoter / Managing Director
1
1
Shri P.C. Somani
Member
1
1
Shri R.J. Saboo
Member
1
1
18.
 
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
 
(i)
 
Location and time of last Three AGM™s held:
Year
Location
Date
Time
2019-77
th
 AGM
WalchandHirachand Hall, I.M.C., Near Churchgate Station, 
 
Mumbai-400 020
10
th
 July, 2019
4.00 p.m.
2020-78
th
 AGM
Through Video Conference (VC) / Other Audio Visual Means (OAVM) 
from Corporate Office at 1161 &1162 Solitaire Corporate Park, 
 

167 Guru Hargovindji Marg, Andheri-Ghatkopar Link Road, Chakala, 

Andheri (East), Mumbai-400093.
17
th
 September, 
2020
4.00 p.m.
2021-79
th
 AGM
Through Video Conference (VC) / Other Audio Visual Means (OAVM) 

from Corporate Office at 1161 &1162 Solitaire Corporate Park, 
 

167 Guru Hargovindji Marg, Andheri-Ghatkopar Link Road, Chakala, 

Andheri (East), Mumbai-400093.
29
th
 June, 2021
4.00 p.m.
49
 
(ii)
 
Special Resolutions passed in previous Three Annual General Meetings.
Year
Date
Time
Special Resolutions passed
2020-21
29th June, 2021
4.00 pm
Nil
2019-20
17
th
 September, 
2020
4.00 pm




Independent Director of the Company for a period of five years from 16
th
 
September, 2020 to 15
th
 September, 2025.


Director of the Company for a period of five years from 16
th
 September, 2020 
to 15
th
 September, 2025.
2018-19
10
th
 July, 2019
4.00 pm












Independent director of the Company for a period of two years from 17
th
 
September, 2019 to 16
th
 September, 2021.






Independent director of the Company for a period of two years from 17
th
 
September, 2019 to 16
th
 September, 2021.
 
(iii)
 
Details of Special Resolution Passed by Postal Ballot during FY 2021-22 through Postal Ballot
  
During the year 2021-22 no business was conducted through postal ballot.
19.
 
CODE FOR PREVENTION OF INSIDER TRADING PRACTICES:
 
In compliance with the SEBI Regulations on prevention of Insider trading, the Company has adopted a code of conduct for its 
Directors and designated employees. The code lays down guidelines which included procedures to be followed and disclosures 
to be made while dealing with the shares of the Company.
20.
 
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS:
 
The Management discussion and analysis forms a part of the Annual report and is annexed separately.
21.
 
DISCLOSURE REGARDING RE-APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTOR:
 
Particulars of Directors, seeking re-appointment/ continuation are given here in below:
Name 
of the 

Directors
Date of Birth
Date of 

Appointment
Expertise in specific 

functional area
Qualifications
Chairman / Director of other 

companies
No of Equity 

Shares held in 

the Company
Shri S.J 

Taparia
07/08/1945
15/06/1977
Industrialist Having 

rich Business 

experience.
B.E
1. 
 
Supreme Petrochem Ltd
2. 
 
Supreme Capital Management 
Ltd.
3. 
 
Boon Investment and Trading 
Company Private Limited.
703816
22.
 
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION:
(i)
 
The Quarterly results of the company are published in newspapers as per Listing requirements. The results are also displayed 
on the BSE, NSE &Company™s website: http://www.supreme.co.in.
(ii)
 
Official News Releases:-
 
Official News releases and media releases are sent to the Stock Exchanges.
 
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‚™Ministry™™), Government of India, has taken a ‚™Green Initiative in Corporate Governance™™ 
by allowing paperless compliance by the Companies and clarified that the service of documents by the Companies can be 
made through Electronic Mode. Accordingly, as a contribution towards green environment, your Company also implemented 

the Initiative to send documents, such as Notice calling the general meeting, audited financial statements, Board™ report, 
auditors™ report, etc. in electronic form on the email id™s provided by the shareholders & made available by them to the 
company through the depositories.
(iii)
 
Presentation made to Institutional Investor / Analysts:
 
Detailed presentation made to Institutional Investors and financial analysis™s is available on the Company™s website: http://

www.supreme.co.in.
50
23.
 
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
(i)
AGM (Date, Time and Venue)
:
Date 
 
: 
 
29
th
 June, 2022 
Time 
 
: 
 
4.00 p.m.
Venue
 
: 
 
The Company is conducting meeting through 
VC / OAVM pursuant to the MCA / SEBI Circular 
and as such there is no requirement to have a 

venue for the AGM. For details please refer to 
the Notice of this AGM.
(ii)
Financial Year
:
1
st
 April, 2021 to 31
st
 March, 2022
(iii)
Key Financial Reporting Dates F.Y. 2022-2023
Unaudited Results for the First Quarter ended June 30, 
2022
:
On or before 15
th
 August, 2022
Unaudited Results for the Second Quarter ended 

September 30, 2022
:
On or before 15
th
 November, 2022
Unaudited Results for the Third Quarter ended 
December 31, 2022
:
On or before 15
th
 February, 2023
Audited Results for the F.Y. 2022-2023
:
On or before 31
st
 May, 2023
(iv)
Date of Book Closure
:
Thursday the 23
rd
 June, 2022 to Wednesday the 29
th
 June, 
2022 (both days inclusive)
(v)
Registered Office
:
612, Raheja Chambers, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021.
(vi)
Listing on Stock Exchanges
:
(i)
 
BSE Limited
(ii)
 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd., (NSE)
(vii)
Listing Fees
:
Annual Listing Fees for the year upto 2022-23 have been 

paid to both the Stock Exchanges.
(viii)
Stock Codes
:
(i)
 
BSE : 509930
(ii)
 
NSE : SUPREMEIND
(ix)
Trading Group
:
(i)
 
BSE : ﬁAﬂ Group,
(ii)
 
NSE : ﬁOther Securitiesﬂ
 
(x)
 
Market Price Data: High / Low / Close During each month in the last Financial Year.
Month
BSE
NSE
High
Low
Close
High
Low
Close
April-2021
2099.05
1929.05
2050.90
2100.00
1930.00
2049.55
May-2021
2338.45
2051.05
2269.45
2339.95
2053.65
2268.95
June-2021
2311.00
2091.65
2162.80
2313.30
2090.00
2164.35
July-2021
2235.20
2050.00
2099.75
2219.00
2046.25
2100.10
August -2021
2210.00
1906.00
2182.15
2210.00
1905.75
2185.25
September-2021
2358.30
2091.00
2335.65
2360.00
2091.60
2334.55
October-2021
2689.00
2239.25
2339.45
2693.90
2225.50
2328.95
November-2021
2492.90
2049.90
2169.55
2492.55
2050.00
2168.45
December-2021
2500.00
2159.90
2227.15
2465.00
2152.00
2228.85
January-2022
2336.95
1965.00
2101.95
2338.00
1963.15
2099.65
February-2022
2157.40
1855.80
2025.90
2163.40
1872.60
2042.40
March-2022
2087.40
1925.00
2043.25
2089.70
1935.10
2047.20
 
(xi)
 
Relative Performance of Supreme Share Price V/S. BSE Sensex :
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Jan
Feb
Mar
59500 Œ
58000 Œ
56500 Œ
55000 Œ
53500 Œ
52000 Œ
50500 Œ
49000 Œ
Œ 2500
Œ 2400

Œ 2300

Œ 2200
Œ 2100
Œ 2000

Œ 1900
Relative Performance of Supreme Industries Limited
51
xii)
Registrar & Transfer Agent (For Physical & Demat 
Shares)
:
M/s. Bigshare Services Private Limited
Office No S6-2, 6th Floor, Pinnacle Business Park, 

Next to Ahura Centre, Mahakali Caves Road, 
Andheri (East) Mumbai Œ 400093.
Tel 022- 62638200 Fax No- 022 -62638299

Weblink to raise queries: 

http://www.bigshareonline.com/Contact.aspx
 
(xiii)
 
Distribution of Shareholding (As on 31
st
 March, 2022)
No. of Equity Shares held
No. of Shareholders
Percentage of 
Shareholders
No. of Shares
Percentages of 
Shareholdings
Upto 500
69109
93.58
2883145
2.27
501 - 1000
1695
2.30
1361880
1.07
1001 - 2000
1262
1.71
1887097
1.49
2001 - 3000
538
0.73
1357307
1.07
3001 - 4000
230
0.31
813164
0.64
4001 - 5000
181
0.25
842511
0.66
5001 - 10000
371
0.50
2650300
2.09
Over 10001
464
0.63
115231466
90.71
Total
73850
100.00
127026870
100.00
(xiv)
Dematerialization of Shares
:
125798200 Shares are Dematerialized (as on 31.03.2022) 
99.03% of total Shares viz 127026870 shares)
(xv)
Outstanding GDRS/ADRS/Warrants or any 

Convertible Instruments, Conversion Date and likely 

impact on Equity
:
The Company has not issued any GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any 

convertible instruments in past and hence as on 31st March, 

2022, the Company does not have any outstanding GDRs/
ADRs/ Warrants or any convertible instruments.
(xvi)
Foreign Exchange Risk & Hedging Activity
1.
 
Long term liabilities
 
Long term liabilities by way of loans including ECB loans are fully hedged ab initio by way of a currency and interest 
rate swap.
2.
 
Trade exposure
 
2.1.
 
Imports/ buyer™s credit finance
  
This exposure is hedged to the extent of at least 50% on a regular basis;
 
2.2.
 
Exports
 
Since the quantum of exports is nominal in comparison to Company™s imports/ buyer™s credit exposure, the 
same is kept open.
3.
 
Derivatives
 
The Company follows a very conservative policy with regard to derivatives. The derivatives are used only to cover/
hedge the underlying liabilities in the nature of Long Term Loans.
4.
 
The foreign exchange policy is in line with the mandate received from the Board. The same is closely followed by 

Chief Financial Officer, under the overall supervision of the Managing Director and Executive Directors.
(xvii)
Plant Locations
:
1.
 
Derabassi (Lalru, Punjab)
2.
 
Durgapur (West Bengal)
3.
 
Gadegaon (Maharashtra)
4.
 
Guwahati (Assam)
5.
 
Ghilot (Rajasthan)
6.
 
Halol - Unit I (Gujarat)
7.
 
Halol - Unit II (Gujarat)
8.
 
Halol - Unit III (Gujarat)
9.
 
Halol - Unit IV (Gujarat)
10.
 
Hosur (Tamil Nadu)
11.
 
Jalgaon - Unit I (Maharashtra)
12.
 
Jalgaon - Unit II (Maharashtra)
13.
 
Jadcherla- (Telangana)
14.
 
Kanhe (Talegaon, Maharashtra)
15.
 
Kanpur (Uttar Pradesh)
52
16.
 
Kharagpur (West Bengal)
17.
 
Khopoli (Maharashtra)
18.
 
Malanpur - Unit I (Madhya Pradesh) 
19.
 
Malanpur - Unit II (Madhya Pradesh)
20.
 
Malanpur - Unit III (Madhya Pradesh)
21.
 
Noida (Uttar Pradesh)
22.
 
Puducherry (Union Territory)
23.
 
Silvassa (Union Territory)
24.
 
Sriperumbudur (Chennai, Tamil Nadu)
25.
 
Urse (Maharashtra)
(xviii)
Address for Investor Correspondence
:
For shares held in Physical form:
M/s. Bigshare Services Private Limited
Office No S6-2, 6th Floor, Pinnacle Business Park, 
Next to Ahura Centre, Mahakali Caves Road, 
Andheri (East) Mumbai Œ 400093.

Tel No. : 62638200 Fax No. : 62638299
Weblink to raise queries: 
http://www.bigshareonline.com/Contact.aspx
For Shares held in Demat form:
Investor™s concerned Depository Participant™s and / or

M/s Bigshare Services Pvt Ltd.
(xix)
Shareholders Assistance Investors Service 
Department
:
Shares Department
The Supreme Industries Limited,
Regd. Office: 612, Raheja Chambers, Nariman Point,
Mumbai 400 021.

Phone Nos. : 62570025, 22851159-60
Fax No.:22851657
E-mail : investor@supreme.co.in
 
(xx)
 
Credit Rating obtained for Bank Loan Facilities
Total Bank Loan Facilities Rated
R
 1445.9 Crore
Long -Term Rating
CRISIL AA+/Stable 
(Upgraded from ﬁCRISIL AA / Positive)
Short ŒTerm Rating
CRISIL A1+ (Reaffirmed)
No revision
R
 200 Crores Commercial Paper
CRISIL A1 + (Reaffirmed)
No revision
 
(xxi) Categories of Shareholders (As on 31
st
 March, 2022)
Sr. No.
Category
No. of Shareholders
Voting%
Number of Shares held
1
Promoters
17
48.85
62053813
2
Resident Individuals
71184
16.47
20928907
3
Corporate Bodies
487
0.81
1024148
4
Nationalised Banks and Mutual Funds
94
17.17
21810250
5
Foreign Portfolio Investors
174
16.16
20529579
6
Foreign Bank
1
0.00
500
7
NRIs
1893
0.54
679673
Total
73850
100
127026870
24.
 
DISCLOSURES:
 
(i)
 
Materially Significant Related Party Transactions:
 
There are no materially significant related party transactions of the Company which have potential conflict with the interest 
of the Company at large
(ii)
 
Details of non-compliance by the Company, penalties, and strictures imposed on the Company by Stock Exchange or SEBI, 

or any statutory authority, on any matter related to capital markets, during the last three years:
 
The Company has complied with the requirements of regulatory authorities on capital markets and no penalties / strictures 

have been imposed against it in the last three years.
(iii)
 
Vigil Mechanism Policy
 
The Company believes in conducting its affairs in a fair and transparent manner by adopting the highest standards of 
professionalism, honesty, integrity and ethical behavior. The Company has adopted a Vigil Mechanism policy in order to 
provide a secure environment and to encourage employees of the Company to report unethical, unlawful or improper 
practice, acts or activities. The reportable matter may be disclosed to the Audit Committee. Employees may also report to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. During the year under review, no employee was denied access to the Audit Committee.
53
(iv)
 
Mandatory and Non-mandatory requirements:
 
The Company has complied with all the mandatory requirements of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. The Company has fulfilled the following non-mandatory requirement as prescribed in Schedule II, PART 
E of Regulation 27(1) of (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
 
-
 
The Positions of Chairman and Managing Director are separate.
(v)
 
The Policy for determination of Material Subsidiary and Related Party Transactions is available on company™s website: www.

supreme.co.in.
(vi)
 
Compliance Certificate from the V. Laxman and Company, Practising Company Secretary, confirming that None of the 

Directors on the Board of the Company have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors 
of Companies by the Board/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such authority is attached as annexure to this Corporate 
Governance Report.
(vii)
 
During the Financial Year Board of Directors has accepted all recommendations of committees, which are mandatory by law.
(viii)
 
Statutory Audit fees of 
R
 37,50,000 has been paid by the Company to M/s Lodha & Company (FRN-301051E) for agreed 
services between the Company and M/s Lodha & Company.
(ix)
 
Disclosure regarding the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 

given in Board Report. During the year no complaints reported / filed under this act.
(x)
 
Your Company has complied with all the requirements of Regulations 17 to 27 and clause (b) to (i) of sub-regulation 46 of 

SEBI (Listing obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
(xi)
Additional Information Regarding the Company is also 
available on the Company™s Website at
:
http://www.supreme.co.in
(xii)
CEO / CFO Certification
:
Shri M. P. Taparia, Managing Director and Shri P. C. 

Somani, CFO heading the finance function have certified 

to the Board that :
(A)
 
They have reviewed financial statements and the 
cash flow statement for the year and that to the best 
of their knowledge and belief:
(1)
 
these statements do not contain any materially 
untrue statement or omit any material fact or 
contain statements that might be misleading;
(2)
 
these statements together present a true and 

fair view of the company™s affairs and are in 
compliance with existing accounting standards, 
applicable laws and regulations.
(B)
 
There are, to the best of their knowledge and belief, 

no transactions entered into by the company during 

the year which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of 
the company™s code of conduct.
(C)
 
They accept responsibility for establishing and 

maintaining internal controls for financial reporting 

and that they have evaluated the effectiveness of the 
internal control systems of the company, pertaining 
to financial reporting and they have disclosed to the 
Auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in 
the design or operation of internal controls, if any, of 
which they are aware and the steps they have taken 
or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
(D)
 
They have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit 

Committee
(1)
 
significant changes in internal control over 
financial reporting during the year;
(2)
 
significant changes in accounting policies during 

the year and that the same have been disclosed 
in the notes to the financial statements; and
(3)
 
instances of significant fraud of which they have 
become aware and the involvement therein, if 
any, of the management or an employee having 
a significant role in the company™s internal 

control system over financial reporting.
The above Certificate was placed before the Board 
Meeting held on 29
th
 April, 2022.
54
CODE OF CONDUCT
The Board has adopted the Code of Conduct for Members of the Board and Senior Management Personnel of the Company. The Code 
lays down, in details, the standards of business conduct, ethics and governance. The compliance of the same has been affirmed and 
a declaration signed by the Managing Director to this effect is given below. Code of Conduct has also been posted on the Company™s 
Website. www.supreme.co.in
Declaration
As provided under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, all Board members and Senior 
Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with The Supreme Industries Limited Code of Conduct for the year ended 
 
31
st
 March, 2022.
For 
The Supreme Industries Limited
M. P. Taparia
 
Managing Director
Mumbai : 29
th
 April, 2022 
Place: Mumbai
C
ERTIFICATE
Based on our verification of books, papers, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by The Supreme Industries Limited 
(ﬁThe Companyﬂ), and also the information provided by its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the conduct of 
secretarial audit of the Company, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company have been debarred 
or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of Companies by the Securities Exchange Board of India, 
Ministry of 

Corporate Affairs or any such authority as on 31
st
 March, 2022.
Date: 27
th
 April, 2022 
Place: Mumbai
UDIN: F00151D000215782
    
For and on behalf of 
    
V. Laxman & Co.,
    
Company Secretaries
(V. Laxman)
FCS No. 1513
C P No. : 744
55
Auditors™ Certificate on Corporate Governance
To the Members of
 
The Supreme Industries Limited
This certificate contains details of compliance of conditions of corporate governance by THE SUPREME INDUSTRIES LIMITED 
(‚the Company™) for the year ended 31
st
 March 2022, as stipulated in Regulations 17-27, clause (b) to (i) of Regulation 46 (2) and 
paragraphs C, D and E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 

Regulations, 2015 (‚Listing Regulations)
Management™s Responsibility for compliance with the conditions of Listing Regulations:
The compliance of conditions of corporate governance is the responsibility of the management. This responsibility includes the 
designing, implementing and maintaining operating effectiveness of internal control to ensure compliance with the conditions of 
corporate governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations.
Auditor™s Responsibility
Our responsibility is limited to examining the procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the 
compliance with the conditions of corporate governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial st
atements 

of the Company.
We have examined the books of account and other relevant records and documents maintained by the Company for the purposes of 
providing reasonable assurance on the compliance with Corporate Governance requirements by the Company in accordance with the 

Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate Governance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‚ICAI™), 
Standards 

on auditing specified under section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special 

Purposes issued by the ICAI which requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms 
that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.
Opinion
Based on the procedures performed by us and to the best of our information and according to explanations given to us and 
representation made by the Management, in our opinion, we certify that the Company has complied, in all material respects, 
with 

the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the above-mentioned Listing Regulations.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Restriction on Use
The certificate is addressed to and provided to the Members of the Company solely for the purpose to enable the Company to comp
ly 
with requirement of aforesaid Regulations and should not be used by any other person or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do 
not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this certificate 
is shown 
or into whose hands it may come without our prior consent in writing.
For 
LODHA & COMPANY
 
Chartered Accountants
 
Firm registration No. Œ 301051E
A.M. Hariharan
 
Partner
 
Membership No. 38323
 
UDIN: 22038323AJRPYD7535
Place : Mumbai
 
Date : 29
th
 April, 2022
 
56
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
FO
R
EWO
R
D
In the last couple of decades, the role of the corporate organizations has undergone a gradual change from being a mere vehicle for 
Financial growth to that of an overall value generating entity not only for the shareholders but for the entire set of its stakeholders. 
The activities and the operation of the companies are being looked from the lens of the externalities it creates over the period of its 
lifetime. The demand is maximise the positive environmental and social externalities and reduce the negative externalities.
This paradigm has been at the centre of consideration at our organization, The Supreme Industries Limited. The focus has been to 
maximise the positive ESG transformation not in just the letter but also the Spirit.
The requirement from the capital markets regulator SEBI to disclose the aspects of ESG by top 1000 listed companies has come at 
right time and our company has taken this as an opportunity to disclose various activities that the company has been doing around 

the aspect of ESG in this BRSR report.
At Supreme we have taken a decision to adopt the BRSR report as a voluntary disclosure in the reporting year FY 2021-22. 
We sincerely hope that this report will provide key information related to ESG aspects of the Business to all the Key stakeholders and 
help the organization to strategize its future course of actions and align with National and International best practices.
 
M.P. Taparia
(Managing Director)
Date: 29
th
 April, 2022
57
TABL
E
 
O
F C
O
NT
E
NTS
SE
CT
IO
N
 A : G
E
N
E
RAL 
DI
SCL
O
SUR
E
S
58
S
E
CT
IO
N B: MANAG
E
M
E
NT AN
D
 PR
O
C
E
SS 
DI
SCL
O
SUR
E
S
65
SE
CT
IO
N
 C: PR
I
NC
I
PL
E
 
WI
S
E
 P
E
RF
O
RMANC
E
 
DI
SCL
O
SUR
E
68
PRINCIPLE 1:  BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES WITH INTEGRITY, AND IN 
A MANNER THAT IS ETHICAL, TRANSPARENT AND ACCOUNTABLE
68
PRINCIPLE 2:  BUSINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES IN A MANNER THAT IS 

SUSTAINABLE AND SAFE
71
PRINCIPLE 3:  BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL EMPLOYEES, 
INCLUDING THOSE IN THEIR VALUE CHAINS
73
PRINCIPLE 4:  BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF AND BE RESPONSIVE TO ALL ITS 

STAKEHOLDERS
79
PRINCIPLE 5: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS
80
PRINCIPLE 6 : BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND MAKE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE 
ENVIRONMENT
83
PRINCIPLE 7:  BUSINESSES, WHEN ENGAGING IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND REGULATORY POLICY, 

SHOULD DO SO IN A MANNER THAT IS RESPONSIBLE AND TRANSPARENT
88
PRINCIPLE 8: BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT
89
PRINCIPLE 9: BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE TO THEIR CONSUMERS IN A 
RESPONSIBLE MANNER
91
58
S
E
CT
IO
N A: G
E
N
E
RAL 
DI
SCL
O
SUR
E
S
I
. 
 D
etails of the listed entity
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L35920MH1942PLC003554
2.
Name of the Listed Entity
The Supreme Industries Limited 
3.
Year of incorporation
17-02-1942
4.
Registered office address
612, Raheja Chambers, Nariman Point, Mumbai -400021. 
5.
Corporate address
1161 & 1162 Solitaire Corporate Park,
167, Guru Hargovindji Marg, Andheri Ghatkopar Link Road,

Andheri (E), Mumbai 400 093

Tele: 022-4043 0000 Fax: 022-4043 0099

Website: http://www.supreme.co.in
Email: supreme@supreme.co.in
6.
E-mail
investor@supreme.co.in 
7.
Telephone
Tele: 022-2285 1159/60
8.
Website
www.supreme.co.in
9.
Financial year for which reporting is being done
2021-2022
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
11.
Paid-up Capital
Rs 25,40,53,740
12.
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) 
of the person who may be contacted in case of any 

queries on the BRSR report
Shri R.J. Saboo, VP (Corporate Affairs) & Company Secretary
612, Raheja Chambers, Nariman Point, Mumbai Œ 400 021
13.
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under 
this report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for 

the entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. for the 

entity and all the entities which form a part of its 

consolidated financial statements, taken together).
This report is being prepared on a standalone basis for 

Supreme only. 
II
. 
 
Products/services
 
14.
 D
etails of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S.No.
D
escription of Main Activity
D
escription of Business Activity
% Turnover of the entity
1
Manufacturing 
Manufacturing Plastic Products 
97.38%
 
15.
 
Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity™s Turnover):
S.No.
Product/Service 
N
I
C Code
% of total Turnover contributed
1
Plastic products
222
97.38%
III
. 
 O
perations
 
16.
 
Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of Plants
Number of 
O
ffices
National
25
19
International
0
1 (Subsidiary Company)
 
17.
 
Markets served by the entity:
a. 
 
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
PAN India 
International (No. Of Countries)
53
b. 
 W
hat is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
 
Exports sales of US $ 29.11 Million was made during the year 2021-22. The contribution of Exports as a percentage 
to total turnover is about 3.07%.  
c. 
 
A brief on types of customers
 
For Plastic Piping System:
 Potable Water Supply, Irrigation, Sewage & Drainage, Plumbing & Sanitation, Industrial 

Pipe System, Fire Sprinkler System, Overhead Water Tanks, Septic Tanks, , Bathroom Fittings, Valves, etc.
 
For Consumer Products:
 Moulded Furniture & Blow Moulded Tables Household, Office Establishments, Institutions,
 
For 
I
ndustrial Products:
 Industrial Components, Material Handling Products (Crates, Pallets, Bins and Dustbins), 

Composite LPG Cylinders Auto Sector, Electronic Household Appliances, Water Purification Œ filters, Soft Drink 
Companies, Agriculture & Fisheries, domestic to outdoor cooking, industrial applications etc.
59
 
For Packaging Products:
 Protective Packaging, Performance Films and Multilayer Cross Laminated Products.
 
Cross laminated films, Multilayer films, SWR Plumbing Systems, Silent Pipe Systems, Lacquer finish & Painted furniture, 
Low density cross-linked PE foam, Irradiation cross-linked PE foam, EPDM foam, Injection Moulded Pallets, Underground 
Drainage System & Manholes are some of the products pioneered in the country by Supreme.
 
O
ur Green Products :
 Supreme Industries is manufacturing the insulation products which are qualified as Green 
products  and certified by CII ŒGreen Products and Service Council. The list of such products and certificates are as 

follows : 
 
1.   INSU Sound XLO
 
2.    INSU Sound BN
 
3.    INSU Sound B CAP
 
4.   INSU BXL
 
 
5.   INSU Tape 
 
6.    INSUflex Hose & Sheet
 
7.    INSU Reflector
 
8.   INSU Shield
 
9.   INSU Shield Tubing
 
10.  INSU MELA foam 
here
b
y
 
c

s
 
th
a
t
I
N
S
US
o
und
 
X
L
O
(
GPS
I
3
6
0
0
1)
Man
u
f
actured 
b
y 
Supreme
 
I
nd
us
tries 
L
t
d 
-
PP
D 
m
e
e
ts 
the req
u
ir
e
m
e
n
t
s
 
of
 
 
Green
P
ro 

c
n
 
an
d
 
qu
a
li
s
 
as Green
 
P
rod
u
ct.
Thi
s
 
c
c
n
 
i
s
 
l
 
De
c
e
mbe
r 
2
0
2
3
 
here
b
y
 
c

s
 
th
a
t
I
N
S
US
o
und
 
BN
(
GPS
I
3
6
0
0
2)
Man
u
f
actured 
b
y 
Supreme
 
I
nd
us
tries 
L
t
d 
-
PP
D 
m
e
e
ts 
the req
u
ir
e
m
e
n
t
s
 
of
 
 
Green
P
ro 

c
n
 
an
d
 
qu
a
li
s
 
as Green
 
P
rod
u
ct.
Thi
s
 
c
c
n
 
i
s
 
l
 
De
c
e
mbe
r 
2
0
2
3
 
here
b
y
 
c

s
 
th
a
t
I
N
S
US
o
un
d
BC
A
P
(
GPS
I
3
6
0
0
3)
Man
u
f
actured 
b
y 
Supreme
 
I
nd
us
tries 
L
t
d 
-
PP
D 
m
e
e
ts 
the req
u
ir
e
m
e
n
t
s
 
of
 
 
Green
P
ro 

c
n
 
an
d
 
qu
a
li
s
 
as Green
 
P
rod
u
ct.
Thi
s
 
c
c
n
 
i
s
 
l
 
De
c
e
mbe
r 
2
0
2
3
 
here
b
y
 
c

s
 
th
a
t
I
N
S
U
 
R
e
c
t
o
r
(
GPS
I
3
6
0
0
4)
Man
u
f
actured 
b
y 
Supreme
 
I
nd
us
tries 
L
t
d 
-
PP
D 
m
e
e
ts 
the req
u
ir
e
m
e
n
t
s
 
of
 
 
Green
P
ro 

c
n
 
an
d
 
qu
a
li
s
 
as Green
 
P
rod
u
ct.
Thi
s
 
c
c
n
 
i
s
 
l
 
De
c
e
mbe
r 
2
0
2
3
 
here
b
y
 
c

s
 
th
a
t
I
N
S
UShie
l
d
(
GPS
I
3
6
0
0
5)
Man
u
f
actured 
b
y 
Supreme
 
I
nd
us
tries 
L
t
d 
-
PP
D 
m
e
e
ts 
the req
u
ir
e
m
e
n
t
s
 
of
 
 
Green
P
ro 

c
n
 
an
d
 
qu
a
li
s
 
as Green
 
P
rod
u
ct.
Thi
s
 
c
c
n
 
i
s
 
l
 
De
c
e
mbe
r 
2
0
2
3
 
here
b
y
 
c

s
 
th
a
t
I
N
S
U
Shi
e
ld
 
T
u
b
ing
(
GPS
I
3
6
0
0
6)
Man
u
f
actured 
b
y 
Supreme
 
I
nd
us
tries 
L
t
d 
-
PP
D 
m
e
e
ts 
the req
u
ir
e
m
e
n
t
s
 
of
 
 
Green
P
ro 

c
n
 
an
d
 
qu
a
li
s
 
as Green
 
P
rod
u
ct.
Thi
s
 
c
c
n
 
i
s
 
l
 
De
c
e
mbe
r 
2
0
2
3
 
60
here
b
y
 
c

s
 
th
a
t
I
N
S
UFl
e
x
H
o
se & She
e
t
(
GPS
I
3
6
0
0
7)
Man
u
f
actured 
b
y 
Supreme
 
I
nd
us
tries 
L
t
d 
-
PP
D 
m
e
e
ts 
the req
u
ir
e
m
e
n
t
s
 
of
 
 
Green
P
ro 

c
n
 
an
d
 
qu
a
li
s
 
as Green
 
P
rod
u
ct.
Thi
s
 
c
c
n
 
i
s
 
l
 
De
c
e
mbe
r 
2
0
2
3
 
here
b
y
 
c

s
 
th
a
t
I
N
S
U
 
B
XL
(
GPS
I
3
6
0
0
8)
Man
u
f
actured 
b
y 
Supreme
 
I
nd
us
tries 
L
t
d 
-
PP
D 
m
e
e
ts 
the req
u
ir
e
m
e
n
t
s
 
of
 
 
Green
P
ro 

c
n
 
an
d
 
qu
a
li
s
 
as Green
 
P
rod
u
ct.
Thi
s
 
c
c
n
 
i
s
 
l
 
De
c
e
mbe
r 
2
0
2
3
 
here
b
y
 
c

s
 
th
a
t
I
N
S
U
T
ape
(
GPS
I
3
6
0
0
9)
Man
u
f
actured 
b
y 
Supreme
 
I
nd
us
tries 
L
t
d 
-
PP
D 
m
e
e
ts 
the req
u
ir
e
m
e
n
t
s
 
of
 
 
Green
P
ro 

c
n
 
an
d
 
qu
a
li
s
 
as Green
 
P
rod
u
ct.
Thi
s
 
c
c
n
 
i
s
 
l
 
De
c
e
mbe
r 
2
0
2
3
 
here
b
y
 
c

s
 
th
a
t
I
N
S
U 
ME
L
F
o
am
(
GPS
I
3
6
0
1
0)
Man
u
f
actured 
b
y 
Supreme
 
I
nd
us
tries 
L
t
d 
-
PP
D 
m
e
e
ts 
the req
u
ir
e
m
e
n
t
s
 
of
 
 
Green
P
ro 

c
n
 
an
d
 
qu
a
li
s
 
as Green
 
P
rod
u
ct.
Thi
s
 
c
c
n
 
i
s
 
l
 
De
c
e
mbe
r 
2
0
2
3
 
 
Supreme products are well accepted by Indian consumers as well as across the globe.
 
The Company is committed having its presence throughout the country. It is able to increase the distributorship network 
and also revamp the same on a continuous basis. The active channel partners™ strength remained at 4053 Nos. by end 
of March 2022.
 
With a renewed push to reach more International Markets, the Company has participated in several international 
exhibitions in 2021-22 for its different products. 
 
Company is able to serve its customers in a most efficient manner by maintaining more depots for its different product 
groups.
 
The Company is in the process of reaching out to more markets and the export team is working on the same. The 
participation in international exhibitions is also done on a continuous basis.
I
V. 
 E
mployees
 
18.
 D
etails as at the end of Financial Year: 2021-22
a. 
 E
mployees and workers (including differently abled):
S.No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
E
MPL
O
Y
EE
S
1
Permanent (D)
3395
3301
97.23
94
2.77
2
Other than permanent (E)
549
540
98.36
9
1.64
3
Total 
E
mployees (
D
+
E
)
3944
3841
97.39
103
2.61
WO
RK
E
RS
4
Permanent (F)
1284
1282
99.84
2
0.16
5
Other than permanent (G)
9191
8714
94.81
477
5.19
6
Total 
E
mployees (F+G)
10475
9996
95.43
479
4.57
61
b. 
 D
ifferently abled 
E
mployees and workers:
S.No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
DI
FF
E
R
E
NTLY ABL
ED
 
E
MPL
O
Y
EE
S
1
Permanent (D)
0
0
0
0
0
2
Other than permanent (E)
0
0
0
0
0
3
Total differently abled 
E
mployees (
D
+
E
)
0
0
0
0
0
DI
FF
E
R
E
NTLY ABL
ED
 
WO
RK
E
RS
4
Permanent (F)
0
0
0
0
0
5
Other than permanent (G)
0
0
0
0
0
6
Total differently abled 
E
mployees (F+G)
0
0
0
0
0
 
19.
 
Participation/
I
nclusion/Representation of women
Total (A)
No. and percentage of females
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Board of Directors
8
1
12.5
Key Management Personnel
3
0
0
 
20.
 
Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (disclosed trends for the past 3 years)
FY 2021-22
 
(Turnover rate in 
 
current FY)
FY 2020-21 
 
(Turnover rate in 
 
previous FY)
FY 2019-2020
 
(Turnover rate in the year 
prior to the previous FY)
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
13.46
0.51
13.97
10.21
0.40
10.62
13.85
0.52
14.37
Permanent Workers
3.56
0.00
3.56
4.18
0.00
4.18
3.58
0.00
3.58
V. 
 
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
 
21.
 
a. 
 
Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
S. 
No.
Name of the holding /subsidiary 
/associate/companies /joint 
ventures (A)
I
ndicate whether 
holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by 
listed 
entity
D
oes the entity indicated at 
column A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility initiatives 
of the listed entity? (Yes/No)
1
Supreme Industries Overseas (FZE)
Subsidiary
100%
No
2
Supreme Petrochem Limited 
Associate
30.78%
Supreme Petrochem Limited will be 

publishing its BRSR Report . 
V
I
. 
 
CSR 
D
etails
 
22.
 
(i) 
 
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: Yes
  
(ii) 
 
Turnover (in 
R
) - 7840.51 crores
  
(iii) 
 
Net worth (in 
R
) - 3387.94 crores
V
II
. Transparency and 
D
isclosures Compliances
23.
 
Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No) 
(
I
f Yes, then 
provide web-link  
for grievance 
redressal policy)
FY 2021-2022
 
Current Financial Year
FY 2020-2021
 
Previous Financial Year
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Shareholders
Yes
21
0
All complaints 
resolved
13
0
All complaints 

resolved
Employees 

and Workers
Yes
4
3
Employee 

behaviour
3
1
Employee 

behaviour
Customers
Yes
739
6
Regarding 

manufacturing, 

packaging, 

installation & 

quality
646
0
Regarding 

manufacturing, 

packaging, 

installation & 

quality
62
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No) 
(
I
f Yes, then 
provide web-link  
for grievance 
redressal policy)
FY 2021-2022
 
Current Financial Year
FY 2020-2021
 
Previous Financial Year
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Value Chain 
Partners - 

Distributors
Yes
0
0
Not Applicable
0
Not 
Applicable
Not Applicable
 
The process for resolving customer complaints is as follows:
Suppliers
Input(s)
PROCESS
Responsibility
Output(s)
Customer(s)
Document / Record 
Reference
Marketing Zonal
Complaint by mail
Defective sample
Review the complaint as per division.
Technical
Commercial
Check the nature of
 
Customer Complaint
Visit to customer
Take actions for 
Approval complaints.
No
Yes
Verify defective product
Record data / details on the format and 
 
get signed by customer.
Study the visit report (if any), process/ quality records of the period 
when product was manufactured. Use product Trace ability criteria. 
Also suggest immediately either to replace the goods or to change the 
product specification for future (if any)
Call Core Team Meeting and review suggestions through interface of 
different functions and decide Root Cause of the Problem. Decide 
Corrective Action (preferably Mistake Proofing) to eliminate the cause 
of the problem.
Approve the complaints in register and also update trend charts 
for the customer complaints objectives on Monthly Basis, present 
summary of Closed as well as Pending Customer Complaints / return 
and their resolution along with other above objectives in MRM
No
Yes
CAPA effective
Q.A. Officer
Day wise
compliants
HOD-QA/Plant head
Customer complaint 
register
HOD QA
Plant Head
Nature of 
Complaints
Q.A. Officer
Decision on 
Nature of 
complaints
HOD-QA/Plant head
HOD
Plant Head
Actions for closing 
the non technical 
complaints
HOD Dispatch 
Plant Head
Complaint 
Closure
Zonal Head 
Marketing Head ED
HOD
Plant Head
Decision on 
 
Nature of 
complaints
HOD QA
Customer Visit
HOD QA
Q.A. Officer
Customer Visit
HOD QA
QA Officer
Visit Report 
Samples if any
HOD QA
Customer complaint 
Format
HOD QA
Visit Report 
Samples if any
HOD QA
Plant head
Decision of 
Replacement/
credit note of 
Product
H.O.D. Dispatch 
 
Plant Head
HOD QA
Plant Head
Decision of 
Replacement/credit 
note of Product
QA HOD
Prod. H.O.D.
Plant Head
Root cause, CAPA 
for closure of NC
Zonal Head 
 
Marketing Officer
QA HOD
Prod. H.O.D.
Plant Head
Root cause, CAPA 
for closure of NC
QA HOD
Prod. H.O.D.
Plant Head
Decision of 
Effectiveness on 
CAPA
Q.A. H.O.D.
Decision of 
Effectiveness on 
CAPA
Q.A. H.O.D.
Complaint 
Closure
CPC Team 
 
Zonal Head 
Marketing Head 
 
BH
63
24.
 O
verview of the entity™s material responsible business conduct issues
 
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters 
that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the 
risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format:
S. 
No.
Material 
I
ssue 
I
dentified 
I
ndicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/
O
)
Rationale for identifying the risk / 
opportunity
I
n case of risk, 
approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(
I
ndicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
1
Occupational 
Health 

and Safety 
(OHS) and 
Environment 

Safety
Risk and 

Opportunity
Risk:
 Inherently associated with business 

activities and processes.
Opportunity:
Strong internal controls and governance 
mechanism are in place at each of the 

factory. This improves the employee / 

worker safety and overall health well- 

being, leading to improved productivity.
The assessment of health 

and environmental 

risks are done on a 
continuous basis. 
Various methods to 

mitigate risk are done 

from time to time. The 
Grievance redressal 
mechanism is in place. 

At each of the factory, 

proper remedial action 

are planned and 
implemented.
Risk: 
Negative
Opportunity: 
Positive
2
Social 
responsibility 

towards society
Opportunity
Supreme understands the importance of 

the social license to operate and good 

and caring relationship towards the 

society provides for sustained positive 
externalities over a period of time.
The Company had formalized a process 
of earmarking a portion of its profits 

each year to support projects which 
fulfil a social obligation. Thus, returning 
to society has been ingrained in the 

Company™s philosophy.
The Company primarily implements its 
CSR initiatives through the Supreme 
Foundation, a charitable institution. Key 
areas of CSR activities in FY22 were:
1. 
 
Quality Education
2. 
 
Upliftment of underprivileged 
community of the society.
3. 
 
Water, Sanitation, health & hygiene.
Preservation & protection of Environment 

through tree plantation, etc.
(Refer to page no. 25 to 32 of this  
Annual Report  for details of activities 

undertaken under, Corporate Social 

Responsibility, for further details.
Positive: The Company recognizes the 
importance of being socially responsible.
Œ
Positive
3
Energy 
Management
Opportunity
There is direct cost savings and resource 

efficiency improvement associated with 
the Energy management and usage of 

renewable energy. Hence it has been 

categorized as an opportunity.
Encouraging Renewable Energy
Œ
 Positive
64
S. 
No.
Material 
I
ssue 
I
dentified 
I
ndicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/
O
)
Rationale for identifying the risk / 
opportunity
I
n case of risk, 
approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(
I
ndicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
4
Supply Chain 
Management
Risk and 

Opportunity
Risk:
 The supply chain and high 

dependency on limited suppliers 

/ vendors can adversely affect the 
procurement.
Opportunity:
The relationships with suppliers/vendors 
are maintained so as to have the 
uninterrupted supplies.
T
he Company™s 
relationship with 

multiple suppliers/
vendors are decades old.
Continuous discussions 
with the suppliers/

vendors are maintained 
to ensure that the 
production is not 

hampered due to the 

required supplies.  
Positive
5
Reduction in 

emission of 

carbon and 

other hazardous 
gases / phasing 
out lead 

stabilers
Opportunity
Opportunity: Geographical presence 

of Company through its manufacturing 

plants spread across the country results 

in reduced transportation and thereby 
reduction of emission of carbon 
and other hazardous gases in the 

environment. Company is gearing up 

to meet with National Green Tribunal 

directive of phasing out Lead Stabilizers 
from manufacturing of different types of 
Pipe and has already started using lead 

free stabilizers in many piping systems.
Œ
Positive
6
Risk 

Management 

and Cyber 

Security
Risk
The inadequacy of risk mapping and 

management system adversely affects 

the overall business operations and 

relationship with the customers.
Risk Management 

Committee constituted 

by the Board ensures 

that timely actions are 
taken on the actual and 
or potential threats, 

so as to mitigate the 

adverse effects.
Negative
7
Branding
Risk
Counterfeit products are introduced by 

some unscrupulous players in a large way 

in the Pipe segment, Cross Laminated 
Films and Furniture Products segment. 
Hence it is considered a risk.
Active in seeking legal 

remedy to protect 

the consumers from 
getting cheated. Largely 
successful in containing 

this menace which 

however appears to be a 
recurring problem area.
Negative
8
Customer 
Education and 
Awareness
Opportunity
Providing distributors / retailers / 
customers and consumers with proper 
guidance and educate about safety 
standards and guidelines improved the 

safety related KPIs and hence it is an 

opportunity for Supreme.
Œ
Positive
65
S
E
CT
IO
N B: MANAG
E
M
E
NT AN
D
 PR
O
C
E
SS 
DI
SCL
O
SUR
E
S
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting th
e 
NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
P1
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity in a manner that is ethical, transparent and accountable
P2
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
P3
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
P4
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive towards all its stakeholders
P5
Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P6
Businesses should respect, protect and make efforts to restore the environment
P7
Businesses when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a  manner that is responsible and transparent
P8
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
P9
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
D
isclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1. 
 
a. 
 
Whether your entity™s policy/policies  
 
 
 
cover each principle and its core 
 
 
elements  of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
 
b. 
 
Has the policy been approved by the 
 
 
Board? (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
 
c. 
 
Web Link of the Policies, if available
https://www.supreme.co.in/policies.php 
2. 
 
Whether the entity has translated the policy  
into procedures. (Yes / No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
3. 
 
Do the enlisted policies extend to your value 

chain partners? (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
4. 
 
Name of the national and international 

codes / certifications / labels / standards 
(e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, 
Rainforest Alliance, Trustee) standards (e.g. 
SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your 
entity and mapped to each principle.
The various International Quality Management Systems like ISO/TS 16949, EMS 
14001 and OHSAS 45001 and also Energy Management System as per ISO 
50001 have been established.
Plastic Piping Systems -Eight state-of-the-art plants: Two each at Jalgaon 
(Maharashtra), Malanpur (Madhya Pradesh) and one each at Kanpur (Uttar 

Pradesh), Gadegaon (Maharashtra), Kharagpur (West Bengal) and Jadcherla 
(Telangana) are accredited with ISO 9001-Quality Management System, ISO 
14001-Environment Management System and BS OHSAS  18001-Occupational 

Health & Safety Assessment Series.
Composite LPG Cylinders plant at Halol in Gujarat is accredited with ISO 9001, 
ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001 Certifications. Also approved by TUV Rhenland for 

ISO 11119-3/EN 12245/EN14227 and usage of TPED 
 mark. These Cylinders 
are also certified by the gas authorities of various countries including PESO 
(Petroleum Explosive Safety Organization) in India.
Multilayer Film is having BRC-IOP certification from UK and ISO 9001-2008 
by Bureau Veritas.
Silpaulin Film confirms to IS: 14611-2016, which is equivalent to comparable 
ASTM standards.
5. 
 
Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity with defined timelines, if any.
 
6. 
 
Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, goals and targets along-with reasons in case the same are 

not met.
For both point 5 & 6:
 
Supreme is committed to develop a strategy to move forward for the Low carbon emissions and monitoring & evaluating ESG 
related challenges, targets and achievements. 
 
Supreme  is in process of developing the mechanism to identify the probable risks and opportunities faced by it in the path of 

being a socially, environmentally aware and properly governed company.
Supreme steps towards mitigating 
E
nvironment risks:

CSR fund through various activities in different locations for development of villages. 
66

our green energy ratio is 12.37%.
 
Company is targeting to reduce emission intensity kg CO
2
/MT by 2% to 3% every year upto year 2024-2025.   
Key Achievement in sustainable 
D
evelopment - FY 21-22



2
 in year 2021-2022 as base year 2019-2020 it was 
19,147 tCO
2
. 
 
Commissioned 8.48 MW Roof top solar project FY 21-22 
Target for FY 22-23 Œ Sustainable 
D
evelopment



2
 in year 2022-2023 as base year 
(19-20) 19147 tCO
2
.

Company™s strategies to implement those 
E
SG objectives:-











changes, water crises, and natural disasters. Company will find ways to bring new techno manufacturing process which 
become leaders into the ESG conversation.

2
% throughout its manufacturing process by introducing new technology 
and high energy efficient equipment. Replacement of fossil base with green energy is the first drive to save environment. 
Sustainability is now benchmarking organisation performance with respect to laws, norms, codes, performance standards 
and voluntary initiatives demonstrates organizational commitment to sustainable development which enhance our product 
demand in global market at competitive rate which will positively increase company EBITDA at low capital employed.

 
1.
 
FY 2022-23 : 14 MW
 
2.
 
FY 2023-24 : 4 MW  


 
2.00 MW respectively. From FY (22-23)


 
Company is also exploring further Feasibility to increase the Green energy Quantum supplier for purchasing of green energy 
as feasible. Company is in a process for Implementation of Energy management system ISO 50001:2018 at six locations i.e 
Gadegaon, Jalgaon, Malanur PVC, Kharagpur, Durgapur and Puducherry
 
Governance, leadership and oversight
 
7. 
 
Statement by 
D
irector responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting 
E
SG related challenges, targets and 
achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)
 
Supreme™s sustainable development approach well focuses on ESG parameters. As a testament to our commitment to the 

environment, we ensure responsibility and commitment towards the needs of society by creating, maintaining and ensuring a 

safe and clean environment for sustainable development. 
 
Supreme undertakes its development and welfare activities directly and through Supreme Foundation. Supreme foundation 
has worked with primary objective of Upgradation of Primary level of education, encouraging sports & cultural activities, 
encouragement to Girl™s education, Uplifting level of education to backward section of children in the society, Availability of 

physical resources required for education, preparation of Playground, Making School Campus lush green, clean and environment 
friendly etc. 
 
Supreme is moving towards sustainable development by reducing the carbon emission and mitigating the adverse impacts on 
environment The Company strategy is to combat adverse climate change, transitioning to low a carbon emission and thereby 
reduction in carbon footprint and taking the required initiatives to monitor and reduce energy consumption.
8. 
 D
etails of the highest authority responsible 
for implementation and oversight of the 
Business Responsibility policy (ies).
Mr. M.P. Taparia
Managing Director 
DIN:- 00112461
67
9. 
 D
oes the entity have a specified Committee 
of the Board / 
D
irector responsible for 
decision making on sustainability related 
issues? (Yes/No). 
I
f yes, provide details.
Yes.
The Company have a Business Responsibility and Sustainable Development 
Committee (BRSR Committee) which comprises Mr. M.P. Taparia, Managing 
Director as Chairman, Shri P.C. Somani, CFO, Shri R.J. Saboo VP (Corp. Affairs) 

& Company Secretary and Shri Vasudev Sharma, Senior GM (Energy and 
Environment) as members.
Company™s Business Responsibility activities, performance and targets are 
reviewed by the BRSR Committee and Board of Directors on an annual basis. 
Risk Management Committee of the Board also assesses the Risk pertaining to 
ESG and certain principles of BRSR.
10.
 D
etails of Review of NGRBCs by the Company
Subject for Review
Review of principles undertaken by and frequency
Performance against above policies and 

follow up action
The performance against the BRSR Policies is reviewed by the BRSR Committee 

on an annual basis and as and when need arises.  The updates in policies are 

carried out after considering the reviews and suggestions of the   Executive 
Directors and Business heads. The implementations of policies are done under 
surveillance of BRSR Committee.
Compliance with statutory requirements 

of relevance to the principles, and, 
rectification of any non-compliances
The Company is in Compliance with all the statutory requirements of principles 
to the extent applicable.  
11. 
 
Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/

No). 
I
f yes, provide name of the agency.
 
No
12. 
 I
f answer to question (1) above is ﬁNoﬂ i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the Principles 
material to its business (Yes/No)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position 
to formulate and implement the policies on 

specified principles (Yes/No)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
The entity does not have the financial or/human 
and technical resources available for the task 
(Yes/No)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
It is planned to be done in the next financial 

year (Yes/No)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Any other reason (please specify)
 Not Applicable
 
*N.A.: Not Applicable
68
S
E
CT
IO
N C: PR
I
NC
I
PL
E
 
WI
S
E
 P
E
RF
O
RMANC
E
 
DI
SCL
O
SUR
E
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with ke
y 
processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as ﬁEssentialﬂ and ﬁLeadershipﬂ. While the essential indicators are 
expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed by 
entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally and ethically responsible.
PR
I
NC
I
PL
E
 1:  BUS
I
N
E
SS
E
S SH
O
UL
D
 C
O
N
D
UCT AN
D
 G
O
V
E
RN TH
E
MS
E
LV
E
S 
WI
TH 
I
NT
E
GR
I
TY, AN
D
 
I
N A MANN
E
R 
THAT 
I
S 
E
TH
I
CAL, TRANSPAR
E
NT AN
D
 ACC
O
UNTABL
E
E
SS
E
NT
I
AL 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
R
1. 
 
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Segment
Total number of 
training and awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered under the 
training and its impact
%age of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the 
awareness programmes
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors and KMPs are regularly trained and apprised with all the 
Business Development, regulations, economy and environmental, social and 
governance parameters during the Board Meetings and Committee Meetings.
100%
Key Managerial 

Personnel
Employees other 
than BoD and 

KMPs
No. of trainings for the employees other than BOD and KMP: 30 nos. of 

training events with approx. 133 hours.
Employees of the Company undergo through various training programmes 
throughout the year. Trainings were undertaken during the year covering a 
wide spectrum of areas such as:  Information and Cyber Security Awareness, 

learning modules on ESG and Marketing modules. Prevention of Sexual 

Harassment at the Workplace, etc.
100%
Workers
2. 
 
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity or by 
directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following format 
(Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 

Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity™s website):
M
O
N
E
TARY
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory / enforcement 

agencies / judicial institutions
Amount 

(
I
n 
I
NR)
Brief of 

the Case
Has an appeal been 

preferred? (Yes / No)
Penalty / Fine
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Settlement
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Compounding fee
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
69
N
O
N-M
O
N
E
TARY
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory / enforcement 

agencies / judicial institutions
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal been 

preferred? (Yes / No)
Imprisonment
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Punishment
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
3. 
 O
f the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or 
non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case 
D
etails
Name of the regulatory / enforcement agencies / judicial institutions
Nil
Nil
4. 
 D
oes the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? 
I
f yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a 
web-link to the policy.
 
Yes, the Company has an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy. The policy has been formulated in alignment with the Supreme™s 
Code of Conduct and various existing policies governing integrity.
 
The policy emphasizes Supreme™s commitment towards zero tolerance for bribery and corrupt practices. The policy facilitates 
ethical decision making and governance. It reinforces Supreme™s culture of transparency in all its dealings. This policy applies to all 

relevant stakeholders and people associated with Supreme and who may be acting on behalf of Supreme. It sets out responsible 
conduct that must be always adhered to.
 
The policy is placed on the Company™s website at, https://www.supreme.co.in/policies.php
5. 
 
Number of 
D
irectors / KMPs /employees / workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement 
agency for the charges of bribery / corruption
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
(Current FY)
(Previous FY)
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Nil
Nil
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
6. 
 D
etails of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
(Current FY)
(Previous FY)
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the Directors
Nil
Nil
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
Nil
Nil
7. 
 
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by regulators/ law 
enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest 
 
As there were no fines / penalties / action taken by regulators / law enforcement agencies / judicial institutions on cases of 
corruption and conflict of interest, hence no corrective actions were  required to be taken.
 
L
E
A
DE
RSH
I
P 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
R
1. 
 
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
 
Supreme takes initiatives to educate its value chain partners , by imparting awareness to them on various latest topics relevant 
to Environment and Social. Supreme has  world class training facilities at Gadegaon Maharashtra, Gwalior M.P, Kharagpur (West 
Bengal) for  engineers, architect, plumbing consultant, plumbing contractors and plumbers. The training program consists of the 

product display & installation system,  hand on training for the various applications which will help to enhance the quality of 
plumbing work and installation practices for  trouble-free performance. 
 
Management have a plan to further expand the training centre by this year in Jadcherla (Hyderabad) and Cuttack (Odisha). The 

training details of the last two FY are presented below: 
Period
Location
Plumbers/
Fitters
D
istributors/
D
ealer/Sub 
D
ealer
Marketing (S
I
L) 
& Channel 
Partners Staff
E
ngineers/Architects/ 
Plumbing Consultants/
Contractors
O
ther
Foreigners
Total
1
st
 April 2020 to 
31
st
 March 2021
Gadegaon
0
47
15
7
23
0
92
Malanpur
124
16
8
1
0
0
149
Kharagpur
78
28
4
0
0
0
110
1
st
 April 2021 to 
31
st
 March 2022
Gadegaon
97
127
36
149
41
35
485
Malanpur
905
51
107
54
0
0
1117
Kharagpur
0
0
3
9
0
0
12
Total
1204
269
173
220
64
35
1965
 
In last 12 years, Supreme trained more than 30,500 professional & 12,000 plumbers from all over India.
 
To conduct the programs and training sessions, we have a qualified team of engineers who are trained and certified by different 

reputed institutes like IPA, IAPMO India and IPSSC etc.
70
 
In next three months we are going to start a 2-month intensive plumbing course for the plumbers. First batch will be of 30 fresh 
students who are interested and willing to come in this field.  The total expenses against their accommodation, food and practical, 

stationary etc will be borne by the company. Also, we will help them to start-up in the market.
 
Looking to the importance, many NGO™s Organizations and Engineering colleges approaches us for plumbing education courses 

in their colleges for which we are providing the assistance for development, establishment free of cost along with the piping 

material required for the set up and training. Few of them are BOSCH India foundation Nasik, Jaguar foundation, Dnyanada 
Institute Pune, LITTE Minakshi Collage of Engineering, Bangalore.
Knowledge Center at Gadegaon
Skills up-gradation session
O
n hand Training
Product Training
 
71
2. 
 D
oes the entity have processes in place to avoid / manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No) 
I
f Yes, provide details of the same. 
 
The Company™s Structure comprises a dual layer, the Board of Directors and the Committees of the Board at the apex level and 
the Management Team at an operational level. The Board lays down the overall Corporate Objectives and provides direction and 

independence to the Management Team to achieve these objectives within a given framework. This professional management 
process results in building a conducive environment for sustainable business operations and value creation for all stakeholders.
 
The Board within the framework of law discharges its fiduciary duties of safeguarding the interests of the Company. The Boards 
composition and size is robust and enables it to deal competently with emerging business development issue and exercise 

independent judgment. 
PR
I
NC
I
PL
E
 2:  BUS
I
N
E
SS
E
S SH
O
UL
D
 PR
O
V
IDE
 G
OOD
S AN
D
 S
E
RV
I
C
E
S 
I
N A MANN
E
R THAT 
I
S SUSTA
I
NABL
E
 AN
D
 SAF
E
E
SS
E
NT
I
AL 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
R
1. 
 
Percentage of R&
D
 and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental 
and social impacts of product and processes to total R&
D
 and capex investments made by the entity, respectively
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial 
Year
D
etails of improvements in environmental and social impacts
R&D
0
0
Not Applicable
Capex
41,47,24,892
1,82,89,436
Old machines were replaced with the modern and latest machines 

with  high energy efficiency , thereby reducing the energy demand 
and consumption Apart from that expenditure were incurred for the 
treatment of wastewater, installation of solar panels and managing 

the plastic scraps.
2. 
 
a. 
 D
oes the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
  
No. 
 
b. 
 I
f yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
  
Not Applicable
3. 
 D
escribe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for 
(a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) 
E
-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
 
The plastics are reused as per the regulatory and standard norms of the State/ Country. Sometimes the waste is sold to registered 
vendors or transported to the authorised recycler.
 
The returned plastic moulded furniture & crates by the customers & in-house generated materials are being grinded & reused 
by using optimum quantity without affecting quality. Also, Supreme has agreement with authorized agencies at all locations for 
pick up and recycle / reusing or safe disposing. 
72
4. 
 W
hether 
E
xtended Producer Responsibility (
E
PR) is applicable to the entity™s activities (Yes / No). 
I
f yes, whether the waste 
collection plan is in line with the 
E
xtended Producer Responsibility (
E
PR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? 
I
f 
not, provide steps taken to address the same.
 
Not Applicable.
L
E
A
DE
RSH
I
P 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
RS
1. 
 
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) 
or for its services (for service industry)? 
I
f yes, provide details in the following format?
N
I
C Code
Name of 
Product / 
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for which the 
Life Cycle Perspective 
/ Assessment was 
conducted
W
hether conducted by 
independent external 
agency
 
(Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in public domain 
 
(Yes / No)
 
I
f yes, provide the 
web-link
The Company has 13 locations certified on ISO 14001:2015. All these locations carry out its environmental risk assessment 
w.r.t. life cycle perspective as per the requirement of the EMS standard.
2. 
 I
f there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your 
products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly 
describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same
Name of Product / Service
D
escription of the risk / concern
Action Taken
No significant social or environmental concerns or risk arose from the risk assessments carried out. The minor risks have 
been successfully identified and effective corrective action for the same has been implemented.
3. 
 
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) 
or providing services (for service industry).
I
ndicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2021-22 (Current FY)
FY 2020-21 (Previous FY)
Plastic 
W
aste
0.0051 %
0.0097 %
4. 
 O
f the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely 
disposed, as per the following format:
FY 2021-22 
 
(Current FY)
FY 2020-21
 
Previous Financial Year
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
D
isposed
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
D
isposed
Plastics (including 
packaging)
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
E-Waste
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Hazardous waste 

(Used Oil)
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Other waste
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
 
Currently Supreme, does not have a mechanism or process to collect back products at the end of the product life cycle. Once 
the LCA strategy has been established, these values will be monitored.
5. 
 
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
I
ndicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total products 
 
sold in respective category
Furniture
2.7%
73
PR
I
NC
I
PL
E
 3:  BUS
I
N
E
SS
E
S SH
O
UL
D
 R
E
SP
E
CT AN
D
 PR
O
M
O
T
E
 TH
E
 
WE
LL-B
EI
NG 
O
F ALL 
E
MPL
O
Y
EE
S, 
I
NCLU
DI
NG 
TH
O
S
E
 
I
N TH
EI
R 
VALU
E 
CHA
I
NS
E
SS
E
NT
I
AL 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
R
1. 
 
a. 
 D
etails of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total (A)
Health 
I
nsurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
D
ay Care Facilities
Number 
(B)
% 
 
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
% 
 
(C/A)
Number 
(
D
)
% 
 
(
D
/A)
Number 
(
E
)
% 
 
(
E
/A)
Number 
(F)
% 
 
(F/A)
P
E
RMAN
E
NT 
E
MPL
O
Y
EE
S
Male
3301
3236
98.03
3236
98.03
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
94
94
100.00
94
100.00
70
74.47
0
0
0
0
Total
3395
3332
98.14
3330
98.09
70
2.06
0
0
0
0
O
TH
E
R THAN P
E
RMAN
E
NT 
E
MPL
O
Y
EE
S
Male
540
490
90.74
490
90.74
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
9
9
100.00
9
100.00
1
11.11
0
0
0
0
Total
549
499
90.89
499
90.89
1
0.18
0
0
0
0
 
b. 
 D
etails of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of workers covered by
Total (A)
Health 
I
nsurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
D
ay Care Facilities
Number 
(B)
% 
 
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
% 
 
(C/A)
Number 
(
D
)
% 
 
(
D
/A)
Number 
(
E
)
% 
 
(
E
/A)
Number 
(F)
% 
 
(F/A)
P
E
RMAN
E
NT 
WO
RK
E
RS
Male
1282
1215
94.77
1215
94.77
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
2
2
100
2
100
2
100
0
0
0
0
Total
1284
1217
94.78
1217
94.78
2
0.16
0
0
0
0
O
TH
E
R THAN P
E
RMAN
E
NT 
WO
RK
E
RS
Male
8714
7885
90.49
5677
65.15
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
477
411
86.16
237
49.69
158
33.12
0
0
0
0
Total
9191
8296
90.26
5914
64.35
158
1.72
0
0
0
0
74
2. 
 D
etails of retirement benefits, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year.
Benefits
FY 2021-22
 
(Current FY)
FY 2020-21
 
(Previous FY)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
D
educted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
D
educted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100
100
Y
100
100
Y
Gratuity*
100
85
Y
100
78
Y
E
S
I
42
70
Y
45
68
Y
O
thers -  Group Mediclaim
58
30
Paid by 
company
55
32
Paid by 
company
 
*Company is maintaining Gratuity Trust.
3. 
 
Accessibility of workplaces
 
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of 
the Rights of Persons with 
D
isabilities Act, 2016? 
I
f not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
 
The offices are accessible to differently abled employees/workers as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. The 
manufacturing locations presently are not suited for the persons with disabilities and hence provisions are not considered.
4. 
 D
oes the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with 
D
isabilities Act, 2016? 
I
f so, provide a 
web-link to the policy.
 
Supreme is an equal opportunity employer. The Company have Equal Opportunity Policy Statement and Human Resource 

Policy. The Policy is applicable to all plants and offices.
 
Web Link: https://www.supreme.co.in/policies.php 
5. 
 
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
 
No parental leaves were availed by Male employees or workers during the reporting FY. However, few female employees and 

workers took the maternity leave, post they returned and were retained. 
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Gender
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
Paternal leave not availed
Paternal leave not availed
Paternal leave not availed
Paternal leave not availed
Female
100%
100%
100%
100%
Total
100%
100%
100%
100%
6. 
 I
s there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and worker? 
I
f yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes / No  (
I
f yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent 
W
orkers
Yes, the grievances of employees & workers are addressed and resolved through following 
mechanisms and committees:
1. 
 
The issues are resolved in presence of the concerned worker.
2.
 
Safety committee team handles the grievances which are raised or occur at company. 
3.
 
Working committee addresses and sorts the grievances that are raised at the workplace.
4.
 
Committee of Associate are in put in place
5.
 
Complaint box is kept at an easily accessible and visible location in plant. The employees put 
his/her grievances inside the box. Weekly or once in a month as preferred, the complaints are 
read. Basis on complaints, corrective actions are taken on it.
6.
 
The Works Committee and Health and Safety Committee has been formulated to redress 
complaints and grievances of employees and workers.
O
ther than Permanent 

W
orkers
Permanent 
E
mployees
O
ther than Permanent 
E
mployees
 
Detailed mechanism for grievance redressal for employees and workers can be explained in following flow chart:
 
Step-1 Member Grievances and Provider Complaints:
 The employee should raise his or her grievance with the immediate 
supervisor. Timely Identified the Problem, Accepting the Grievances
 
Step-2 Grievances and Investigations Concerning Persons:
 
Collecting the Facts, collect all the relevant facts and proofs relating 
to the grievance. The analysis of the cause will involve studying various aspects of the grievance such as the employees past 

history, frequency of the occurrence, management practices
75
 
Step-3 Decision Taken/Notice Requirements and Appeal Process:
 
Taking Decision-a decision is taken which is best suited to 
the given situation in the organization. Such decision should serve as a both within the department and the organization. In 
case, he is not satisfied with the decision, he goes to the departmental head for the settlement of his grievance.
 
Step-4 Provider Claim Disputes resolution/Action:
 If the employee is still dissatisfied, he forwards it to the appropriate Superior 

of the Factory Management. Their decision is final and binding on both the parties. The individual grievances considered by 

Factory Management pertain to promotion, suspension, discharge and dismissal.
 
A similar organization wide process is also formed for the grievance redressal of other stakeholders also.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I
n
f
o
r
m
a
l
 
P
r
o
c
ess
 
Agg
r
i
e
v
e
d
 
P
e
r
s
o
n
 
ra
i
s
e
s
 
g
r
i
e
v
a
n
c
e
 
w
i
t
h
 
i
m
m
e
d
i
a
t
e 
m
a
n
a
g
e
r
 
F
o
rm
a
l
 
G
ri
e
v
an
c
e 
I
ss
u
e
 
un
r
e
so
l
v
e
d
-
 
Em
p
l
o
y
ee
 
m
a
y
 
m
o
v
e
 
t
o
 
t
h
e
 
F
o
r
m
a
l
 P
r
o
c
e
s
s
 
I
ss
u
e
 
r
e
so
l
v
ed
 
I
n
f
o
r
m
a
l
 
d
i
s
c
u
ss
i
o
n
 
t
o
 
t
a
k
e 
p
l
a
c
e
 
If
 
t
h
e
 
i
ss
u
e
 
i
s
 
a
g
a
i
n
s
t
 
t
h
e
 
m
a
n
a
g
e
r
,
 
t
h
e
 
m
a
e
r
 
m
u
s
t
 
b
e
 
r
a
i
s
e
d 
w
i
t
h
 
a
 
m
o
r
e
 
a
 
s
e
n
i
o
r
 
A
c
o
n
 
i
d
e
n
e
d 
a
n
d
 
u
nd
e
r
t
a
k
e
n
 
D
e
t
e
r
m
i
n
e
 
t
h
e 
c
o
rr
e
ct
 
p
o
li
c
y
 
t
o
 
f
o
ll
o
w
 
Co
nd
u
ct
 
a
 
g
r
i
e
v
a
n
c
e
 
 
I
s
 
t
h
e
 
i
ss
u
e
 
a
pp
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
 
t
o
 
b
e
 
d
e
a
l
t
 
wi
t
h
 
v
i
a
 
t
he 
g
r
i
e
v
a
n
c
e
 
p
r
oc
e
d
u
r
e?
 
G
r
i
e
v
a
n
c
e
 
F
o
r
m
 
i
s
 
s
e
n
t
 
t
o
 
W
o
r
k
s
 
Co
m
m
i
ee
,
 
H
e
a
l
t
h
 
a
nd
 
S
a
f
e
t
y
 
Co
mm
i
e
e
 
S
t
a
k
e
h
o
l
d
e
r
 
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
s
 
t
he
 
G
r
i
e
v
a
n
c
e
 
F
o
r
m
 
G
r
i
e
v
a
n
c
e
 
i
s
 
u
p
h
e
ld
 
S
t
a
k
e
h
o
l
d
e
r
 
a
cc
e
p
t
s
 
d
e
c
i
s
i
o
n
 
S
t
a
k
e
h
o
l
d
e
r
 
a
cc
e
p
t
s
 
d
e
c
i
s
i
o
n
 
A
c
o
n
 
i
d
e
n
ed 
a
n
d
 
u
nd
e
r
t
a
k
e
n
 
G
r
i
e
v
a
n
c
e
 
 
S
t
a
k
e
h
o
l
d
e
r
 
d
o
e
s
 
n
o
t
 
a
cc
e
p
t
 
d
e
c
i
s
i
o
n
 
a
n
d 
m
a
y
 
a
p
p
e
a
l
 
 
F
o
rm
a
l
 
G
ri
e
v
a
n
c
e
 
A
p
p
e
a
l
 
P
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
 
S
t
a
k
e
h
o
l
d
e
r
 
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
s
 
p
a
r
t
 
2
 
o
f
 
t
h
e
 
g
r
ie
v
a
n
c
e
 
F
o
r
m
 
a
nd
 
s
en
d
s
 
t
o
 
t
h
e
 
Vi
c
e
 P
r
e
s
i
d
e
n
t
 
A
p
p
e
a
l
 M
e
e
n
g
 c
o
n
d
u
c
t
e
d
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
O
u
t
c
o
m
e
 
A
p
p
e
a
l
 
M
e
e
n
g
D
i
s
m
i
ss
 
a
p
p
e
a
l
-
 
u
ph
o
l
d
 o
u
t
c
o
m
e
 
o
f
 
f
o
r
m
a
l
 
g
r
i
e
v
an
c
e
 
d
e
ci
s
i
o
n
 
D
i
s
m
i
ss
 
a
p
p
e
a
l
-
 
r
e
c
o
m
m
e
nd
 
a
l
t
e
r
n
a
v
e
 
a
c
o
n
 
U
ph
o
l
d
 
a
pp
e
al
-
 
o
v
e
rt
u
r
n
 o
u
t
c
o
m
e
 
o
f
 
f
o
r
m
a
l
 
g
r
i
e
v
a
n
c
e
 
d
e
ci
s
i
o
n
 
T
h
e
 
d
e
c
i
s
i
o
n
 
r
e
a
c
hed 
i
s
 
n
a
l
 
N
o
 
Y
e
s
 
N
o
 
N
o
 
Y
e
s
 
Y
e
s
 
Y
e
s
 
N
o
 
76
7. 
 
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:
Benefits
FY 2021-22
 
(Current FY)
FY 2020-21
 
(Previous FY)
Total employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category 
 
(A)
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union 
 
(B)
% 
 
(B/A)
Total employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category 
 
(C)
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union 
 
(
D
)
% 
 
(
D
/C)
Total Permanent 
E
mployees
3395
0
0
3276
0
0.0
- Male
3301
0
0
3171
0
0.0
- Female
94
0
0
105
0
0.0
Total Permanent 

W
orkers
1284
889
69.24
1354
497
36.7
- Male
1282
889
69.34
1352
497
36.8
- Female
2
0
0
2
0
0.0
8.
 D
etails of training given to employees and workers
Category
FY 2021-22 Current Financial Year
FY 2020-21 Previous Financial Year
Total
 
(A)
O
n Health and 
 
Safety measures
O
n Skill 
 
upgradation
Total
 
(
D
)
O
n Health and 
 
Safety measures
O
n Skill 
 
upgradation
No.
 
(B)
% 
 
(B/A)
No. 
 
(C)
% 
 
(C/A)
No.
 
(
E
)
% 
 
(
E
/
D
)
No. 
 
(F)
% 
 
(F/
D
)
E
MPL
O
Y
EE
S
Male
3841
2143
55.79
2026
52.75
3618
1940
53.62
1771
48.95
Female
103
55
53.40
60
58.25
106
58
54.72
55
51.89
Total
3944
2198
55.73
2086
52.89
3724
1998
53.65
1826
49.03
WO
RK
E
RS
Male
9996
6848
68.51
4747
47.49
10442
6332
60.64
6213
59.50
Female
479
278
58.04
357
74.53
289
180
62.28
178
61.59
Total
10475
7126
68.03
5104
48.73
10731
6512
60.68
6391
59.56
9. 
 
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY 2021-22 (Current FY)
FY 2020-21 (Previous FY)
Total
 
(A)
No. 
 
(B)
% 
 
(B/A)
Total
 
(C)
No. 
 
(
D
)
% 
 
(
D
/C)
E
mployees
Male
3841
3841
100
3618
3618
100
Female
103
103
100
106
106
100
Total
3944
3944
100
3724
3724
100
W
orkers
Male
9996
9996
100
10442
10442
100
Female
479
479
100
289
289
100
Total
10475
10475
100
10731
10731
100
10. 
 
Health and safety management system:
a. 
 W
hether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). 
I
f 
yes, the coverage such system?
 
Yes. 
 
12 locations out of 25 locations are certified for Occupational Health & Safety Management System. The management 
system covers all employees, workers and interested party™s health and safety at each certified location. The system includes 
everything from planning to developing strategies and procedures, as well as monitoring and analysing data and improving 
it continually.
77
b. 
 W
hat are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by 
the entity?
 
At all the certified locations, in order to identify the work-related hazards, HIRA (Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment) 
is conducted. HIRA assesses both the routine and non-routine activities to determine the risk from them. Besides HIRA, 

JHA (Job Hazard Analysis) is also conducted. Company also has effective PTW (Permit to Work) system in place to prevent 
the hazards during routine and non-routine jobs. 
c. 
 W
hether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such 
risks. (Y/N)
 
Yes. The process is available at all the locations. The processes include direct interaction with controller or safety officer, 
suggestion box, approaching the Work™s Committee or Health and Safety Committee
d. 
 D
o the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No)
 
Yes. At all plants and offices.
11. 
 D
etails of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety 
I
ncident / Number
Category
FY 2021-22 
(Current FY)
FY 2020-21 
(Previous FY)
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours worked)
[(No. of lost time injuries in FY * 1,000,000) /Total hours worked by all staff in 
same FY]
Employees
172.32
205.80
Workers
284.55
374.85
Total recordable work-related injuries
(Total number of employees / Workers affected by work-related injuries or 
 
ill health)
Employees
57
48
Workers
221
151
No. of fatalities
Employees
1
0
Workers
0
2
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
12. 
 D
escribe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place
 
Several measures are taken up by Supreme to ensure a safe and healthy working condition for all employees, workers and other 
interested parties like visitors etc. The measures include, but not limited to, are:


















13. 
 
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Category
FY 2021-22 (Current FY)
FY 2020-21 (Previous FY)
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
5
0
All complaints 
are resolved
3
0
All complaints 
are resolved
Health & Safety
6
0
All complaints 
are resolved
2
0
All complaints 
are resolved
14. 
 
Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed 
 
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
48%
Working Conditions
100%
78
15. 
 
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant 
risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions. 
 
All the risks or concerns identified in ISO 45001 through HIRA have been addressed. Corrective actions have been taken post 
participation and consultation of managerial and non-managerial employees and workers. Effectiveness of the corrective actions 

have also been monitored. 
L
E
A
DE
RSH
I
P 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
RS
1.
 
 Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of 
 
(A) 
 
E
mployees (Y/N): 
Yes. Compensatory package has been extended to all company permanent employees (company on-roll).
 
(B) 
 W
orkers (Y/N):
 Yes. Compensatory package has been extended to all company permanent worker (company on-roll).
2. 
 
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the 
value chain partners.
 
Checks regarding GST are done for Distributers. While appointing, compliances are evaluated. At the time of new vendor 
registration, units check GST Return filing status online.
3. 
 
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health / fatalities 
(as reported in Q11 of 
E
ssential 
I
ndicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or 
whose family members have been placed in suitable employment: 
 
Total no. of affected employees / workers
 
No. of employees / workers that are rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment 
or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment
Category
Total no. of affected employees / workers
No. of employees / workers that are rehabilitated and 
placed in suitable employment or whose family members 
have been placed in suitable employment
FY 2021-22
 
(Current FY)
FY 2020-21
 
(Previous FY)
FY 2021-22
 
(Current FY)
FY 2020-21
 
(Previous FY)
Employees
1
0
0
0
Workers
0
2
0
0
4. 
 D
oes the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career 
endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No) : 
 
Yes. Some employees, after retirement age, are considered for advisory role in the Company only at the discretion of management.
5. 
 D
etails on assessment of value chain partners: 
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
Nil
Working conditions
Nil
6. 
 
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from assessments 

of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners. 
 
Supreme is in consideration of taking up value chain assessment. 
79
PR
I
NC
I
PL
E
 4:  BUS
I
N
E
SS
E
S SH
O
UL
D
 R
E
SP
E
CT TH
E
 
I
NT
E
R
E
STS 
O
F AN
D
 B
E
 R
E
SP
O
NS
I
V
E
 T
O
 ALL 
I
TS STAK
E
H
O
L
DE
RS
E
SS
E
NT
I
AL 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
R
1. 
 D
escribe the process for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
 
Any individual and group of people, etc, who are impacted due to business operations and projects of the Company are the 
stakeholders. Any of such individual and group of people that adds value for business and have greater impact on the business are 
the key stakeholders for the Company.  The key stakeholders inter alia include employees, shareholders / investors, Distributors, 
Customers, Channel partners, Research Analyst, Vendors, suppliers, regulators and government agencies.
 
The process for identification of such key stakeholders is of Qualitative nature. It is conducted in consultation with and feedback 

from different departments along with Senior Management and Board.
2. 
 
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group.
Stakeholder 
Group
W
hether identified 
as Vulnerable & 
Marginalized Group
 
(Yes / No)
Channels of communication 
(
E
mail, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, Notice 
Board, 
W
ebsite), 
O
ther
Frequency of 
engagement (Annual 
/ Half yearly / 
Quarterly / others Œ 
please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Employees
No
Emails, Notices and SOPs 
and other communication 
mechanisms
Daily
Follow up for SOPs and 
compliances with polices 
of the Company
Shareholders / 

Investors
No
Emails, Newspaper, 
Advertisement, website of 
the Company and Stock 
Exchanges,  Notice Board and 
AGM
Quarterly and as 
and when need 
arises
Disclosing Quarterly/
Half Yearly/Yearly Results, 
sending Annual Reports 
and Notice for General 
Meetings
Distributors 
/ Channel 
Partners
No
Email, Physical and other 
modes
Frequent and need 
basis
Sales Orders, Discount 
Policies, Advertisement 
etc
Customers
No
Multiple Channel - physical 
and digital
Frequent and need 
based
Through Distributors and 
also direct interaction
Research 

Analyst
No
Email/ con-calls, meetings, 
Video - conferences
Frequent and need 
based
Interaction on explaining 
the Quarterly/half yearly 
/yearly Results and 
Issuance of Press Releases
Suppliers
No
Email/ con-calls, meetings, 
Video - conferences
Frequent and need 
based
Purchase of Machines, 
Plastics Polymers, 
Consumables, Packing 
Materials etc.
80
Stakeholder 
Group
W
hether identified 
as Vulnerable & 
Marginalized Group
 
(Yes / No)
Channels of communication 
(
E
mail, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, Notice 
Board, 
W
ebsite), 
O
ther
Frequency of 
engagement (Annual 
/ Half yearly / 
Quarterly / others Œ 
please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Government 

agencies
No
Email, one-on-one meetings, 
Con-calls, videoconference
Need based
On various Law points, 
regulations, amendments, 
and approvals
Communities
No
Directly or through Supreme 
Foundation
Frequent and need 
based
Support socially / by CSR 
Activities to satisfy needs 
of society / communities
L
E
A
DE
RSH
I
P 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
R
1. 
 
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics 

or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
 
Supreme provides several platforms for consultation between stakeholders and the Board. The platforms include regular meetings 
of MD, ED and Senior Management with Stakeholders.
 
Supreme believes that continuous efforts of engagement between stakeholders and Board enables it to understand the requirement 
and expectations of the Stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social parameters. This enables the Company to form 
its strategies and improve its performance to serve the stakeholders in better way.  Board follows-up and keeps itself updated 

on various development initiatives, suggestions, and feedback from the individual Board Members.
2. 
 W
hether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social 
topics (Yes / No). 
I
f so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were 
incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
 
Yes. The stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social topics 
of Supreme. The formulation of the Company Policies pertaining to Environment and Social have been a result of continuous 
interactions with the Government Regulatory Authorities, Distributors, Suppliers and the local community. 
3. 
 
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized 
stakeholder groups.
 
Company directly or through Supreme Foundation promotes education and takes required steps for uplifting of under privileged 
in the society. Apart from these, Supreme Foundation work in promotion of health care, supply of daily drinking water, create 
awareness in fields of Swaccha Bharat Abhiyan, Beti Padhao-Beti Bachao & women empowerment, social integrity etc. Detailed 
CSR activities given in Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
PR
I
NC
I
PL
E
 5: BUS
I
N
E
SS
E
S SH
O
UL
D
 R
E
SP
E
CT AN
D
 PR
O
M
O
T
E
 HUMAN R
I
GHTS
81
E
SS
E
NT
I
AL 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
R
1. 
 E
mployees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the 
following format:
Category
FY 2021-22  (Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21 (Previous Financial Year)
Total 
 
(A)
No. of employees 
/ workers covered 
(B)
 % 
 
(B / A)
Total 
 
(C)
No. of employees 
/ workers covered 
(
D
)
% 
 
(
D
 / C)
E
mployees
Permanent
3395
2143
63.12
3276
1940
59.22
Other than permanent
549
55
10.02
448
58
12.95
Total 
E
mployees
3944
2198
55.73
3724
1998
53.65
W
orkers
Permanent
1284
278
21.65
1354
326
24.08
Other than permanent
9191
6848
74.51
9377
4725
50.39
Total 
W
orkers
10475
7126
68.03
10731
5051
47.07
2.
 D
etails of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2021-22  (Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21 (Previous Financial Year)
Total 
 
(A)
E
qual to 
 
Minimum 
W
age
More than 
 
Minimum 
W
age
Total 
 
(
D
)
E
qual to 
 
Minimum 
W
age
More than 
 
Minimum 
W
age
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
No. (
E
)
% (
E
 / 
D
)
No. (F)
% (F / 
D
)
Employees
Permanent
 3,395 
 48 
1.41
 3,347 
98.59
 3,276 
 70 
2.14
 3,206 
97.86
Male
 3,301 
 46 
1.39
 3,255 
98.61
 3,171 
 66 
2.08
 3,105 
97.92
Female
 94 
 2 
2.13
 92 
97.87
 105 
 4 
3.81
 101 
96.19
O
ther than 
Permanent
 549 
 252 
45.90
 297 
54.10
 448 
 34 
7.59
 414 
92.41
Male 
 540 
 243 
45.00
 297 
55.00
 447 
 34 
7.61
 413 
92.39
Female
 9 
 9 
100.00
 -   
0.00
 1 
 -   
0.00
 1 
100.00
W
orkers
Permanent
 1,284 
 224 
 17.45 
 1,060 
 82.55 
 1,354 
 283 
 20.90 
 1,071 
 79.10 
Male
 1,282 
 -   
 -   
 1,282 
 100.00 
 1,352 
 283 
 20.93 
 1,069 
 79.07 
Female
 2 
 -   
 -   
 2 
 100.00 
 2 
 -   
 -   
 2 
 100.00 
O
ther than 

Permanent
 9,191 
 -   
 9,191 
 100.00 
 9,377 
 4,337 
 46.25 
 5,040 
 53.75 
Male 
 8,714 
 4,294 
 49.28 
 4,420 
 50.72 
 8,944 
 4,260 
 47.63 
 4,684 
 52.37 
Female
 477 
 250 
 52.41 
 227 
 47.59 
 433 
 77 
 17.78 
 356 
 82.22 
3.
 D
etails of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format:
 
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category
Number
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category
Board of Directors (BoD)
7
2600000
1
2500000
Key Managerial Personnel
3
20434319
None 
Not Applicable
Employees other than BoD and KMP
3831
348555
102
383304
Workers
9996
156317
479
134516
 
Note:  Median remuneration/ salary/ wages of respective category given on annual basis
4.
 D
o you have a focal point (
I
ndividual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or 
contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
 
Yes. The Human Resources department™s head in the respective units are responsible for addressing human rights impacts.
5.
 D
escribe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
 
Supreme has a robust mechanism in place to redress the grievances related to human rights. Some major structures within the 
organization includes Internal Complaints Committee (PoSH related)/Worker Committee/Grievances Committee are various 
institutional mechanisms present to address the grievances related to human rights.
82
6.
 
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2021-22  
 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21 
 
(Previous Financial Year)
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
Nil
Nil
None
Nil
Nil
None
Discrimination at workplace
Nil
Nil
None
Nil
Nil
None
Child Labor
Nil
Nil
None
Nil
Nil
None
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
Nil
Nil
None
Nil
Nil
None
Wages
Nil
Nil
None
Nil
Nil
None
Other human rights related issues
Nil
Nil
None
Nil
Nil
None
7.
 
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
 
Supreme has robust mechanisms to avoid any kind of adverse consequences to the complainant. Some examples of the initiatives 
include development of works committee and Health and Safety Committee who can provide the necessary protection to the 
complainant. Moreover, Supreme follows zero tolerance policy for such cases and identity and information of complainant is 

kept confidential. Regular social audit is undertaken to address these aspects within organization.
8.
 D
o human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
 
Yes. Issues related to child labor and forced labor and other compliances related to human rights are part of the business 
agreements and contracts.
9.
 
Assessments of the year
 
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities 
 
or third parties)
Child labour 
100
Forced/involuntary labour
100
Sexual harassment 
100
Discrimination at workplace
100
Wages
100
10.
 
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 9 above.
 
Assessments are being carried out presently. Detailed plan of action is being prepared to address the significant risks/ Concerns. 
The details of the same will be shared in the BRSR filings of the subsequent years.
L
E
A
DE
RSH
I
P 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
R
1.
 D
etails of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints.
 
Supreme is in the process of relooking and if required revamping the processes to address the complaints that are received. The 
process once completed will be shared in detail in the subsequent BRSRs. The process covers key steps of 






2.
 D
etails of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted.
 
At present at Supreme, no such exercise has been conducted in this reporting period. There is a plan to conduct due-diligence 
and the Scope and Coverage of Human rights due diligence, entails are as under:




3.
 I
s the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with 
D
isabilities Act, 2016?
 
Yes. Most of our facilities are accessible to differently abled visitors. 
83
4.
 D
etails on assessment of value chain partners:
 
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Child labour 
No such assessment has been carried out in this reporting year. The organization has 
planned to introduce such assessments in the forthcoming years. The status of the same will 

be updated in the subsequent BRSRs
Forced/involuntary labour
Sexual harassment 
D
iscrimination at workplace
W
ages
O
thers- Please Specify
5.
 
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above.
 
Not Applicable due to the above stated reason in Question 4.
PR
I
NC
I
PL
E
 6 : BUS
I
N
E
SS
E
S SH
O
UL
D
 R
E
SP
E
CT AN
D
 MAK
E
 
E
FF
O
RTS T
O
 PR
O
T
E
CT AN
D
 R
E
ST
O
R
E
 
E
NV
I
R
O
NM
E
NT
E
SS
E
NT
I
AL 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
R
1. 
 D
etails of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2021-22  
 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21 
 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total electricity consumption (A) KJ
8,31,91,42,54,800
7,97,08,41,64,296
Total fuel consumption (B) KJ
3,92,50,33,90,500
3,85,11,43,04,538
Energy consumption through other sources (C) KJ
1,18,84,55,36,400
91,13,32,72,800
Total energy consumption (A+B+C)
13,43,26,31,81,700
12,73,33,17,41,634
Revenue Energy Intensity(Total energy consumption/ turnover 

in rupees) KJ/INR
17.24
19.98
Energy intensity (optional) Œ the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity Œ KJ/MT
33,56,773.29
32,76,951.87
 
I
ndicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
I
f yes, 

name of the external agency.
       Yes, CII has conducted an assessment on the energy consumption.
84
2.
 D
oes the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (
D
Cs) under the Performance, Achieve and 
Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of 
I
ndia? (Y/N) 
I
f yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have 
been achieved. 
I
n case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any
 
None of the sites are covered under the PAT scheme
3.
 
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2021-22  
 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21 
 
(Previous Financial Year)
W
ater withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) 
 
Surface water
    49,902 
              82,782 
(ii) 
 
Groundwater
7,05,412 
         8,40,141 
(iii) 
 
Third party water
5,51,717 
         4,31,253 
(iv) 
 
Seawater / desalinated water
                 -   
   -   
(v) 
 
Others
    39,043 
              36,048 
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
    13,46,075 
      13,90,224 
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
13,46,075 
      13,90,224 
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
       0.000017 
        0.000022 
Water intensity (optional) Œ the relevant metric may be selected by 

the entity Œ KL/MT
          3.36 
                    3.58 
 
Note: 
I
ndicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
I
f 
yes, name of the external agency
 
 
The values provided pertaining to water usage and management are from the internal water assessment and study carried out 
by TSIL. No external assurance has been carried out.
4.
 
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid 
D
ischarge? 
I
f yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation
 
Supreme has implemented zero liquid discharge in all its locations. Treatment up to tertiary level is invariably carried out 

depending on the water parameters in the respective locations. which then is being discharged to factory Garden Use.
5.
 
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2021-22  
 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21 
 
(Previous Financial Year)
Nox 
ppmv
446
618.21
SOx
%
2.58
2.72
Particulate matter (PM) 
mg/Nm3
446
430.25
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
ug/Nm3
Nil
Nil 
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
ug/Nm3
Nil
Nil 
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
ug/Nm3
Nil
Nil 
Others Œ Carbon Monoxide 
mg/Nm3
57.7
72.1
Others Œ (Hydrocarbon as NHMC)
mg/Nm3
42.6
42.2
 
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of 

the external agency.
 
The pollution related compliance evaluation is done by the respective pollution control boards on a periodic basis and Supreme 

is in compliance with all the norms and requirements. Other than this No independent assessment are being carried out.
6.
 
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2021-22  
 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21 
 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Scope 1 emissions
 (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO
2
, CH
4
, N
2
O, HFCs, PFCs, SF
6
, NF
3
, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO
2
 equivalent
11,471 
12,145 
Total Scope 2 emissions
 (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO
2
, CH
4
, N
2
O, HFCs, PFCs, SF
6
, NF
3
, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO
2
 equivalent
1,82,940 
1,74,916 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of 
turnover
tCO
2
/INR 
0.0000025 
0.0000029 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
(optional) 
Œ the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity
 tCO
2
/MT
0.486 
0.481 
85
 
I
ndicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
I
f yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
Yes, CII has carried out independent assessment of the GHG Inventory
7.
 D
oes the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? 
I
f Yes, then provide details.
 
Supreme is actively working on the strategy of reduction of GHG emissions across its operations and also across its scope 1 
and 
2. Supreme installed our own solar power projects and also purchasing green energy from the third party renewable energy 
sources.
 
Supreme have also been working on energy efficiency measures as a strategic program for the implementation of the most energy 
efficient technologies as per the Industry standards.
8.
 
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify 
unit
FY 2021-22  
 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21 
 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total 
W
aste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
MT
45,492 
 46,158
E-waste (B)
MT
4 
 12 
Bio-medical waste (C)
 MT
0 
 0 
Construction and demolition waste (D)
 MT
- 
 - 
Battery waste (E)
MT
8
 3
Radioactive waste (F)
 MT
- 
 - 
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. 
(G)
MT
191 
 784 
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). 

Please specify, if any. (Break-up by composition 
i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
MT
3,680 
 3,395 
Total (A+B + C + 
D
 + 
E
 + F + G + H)
 MT
49,375
 50,352 
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations 

(in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
 
FY 2021-22  
 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21 
 
(Previous Financial Year)
(i) 
 
Recycled inhouse generation
 
45,363 
 51,123 
(ii) 
 
Re-used
 
 32 
 24 
(iii) 
 
Other recovery operations(cust return)
 
 - 
 - 
Total
 
45,396 
 51,147 
(i) 
 
Recycled inhouse generation
 
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste: 
E
xample : Ash, Concentrated Spent 
W
ash, Bio Gas, Sludge (Manure)
(i) 
 
Incineration
 
 - 
 - 
(ii) 
 
Landfilling
 
 - 
 - 
(iii) 
 
Other disposal operations
 
 5,674 
 4486 
Total
 
 5674 
 4486 
 
I
ndicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
I
f yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
ISO systems audit is regularly carried out as a part of Internal systems management
9.
 
Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. 
D
escribe the strategy adopted by your 
company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to 

manage such wastes.
 
Depending on the type of the unit processes and manufacturing facility, Supreme has a robust waste management procedure in 
line with the latest requirements of the pollution control boards and the ISO system that we have been following. Non-hazardous 
waste is being reuse inside and hazardous waste is being disposed off through authorized vendor. 
 
In certain units/ Locations we have used 100% recycled of plastic thus paving the way for resource efficiency. The horticultural 

wastes are vermi-composted within the site while the STP sludge is re-used as manure in the green area maintenance and 
development. The food waste generated from the canteen is sent to the nearby piggeries.
 
Thus we have set comprehensive plans to manage every kind of waste that gets generated in our facilities.
86
10.
 I
f the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals 
/ clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
S.No.
Location of 
operations/offices
Type of operations
W
hether the conditions of environmental approval / 
clearance are being complied with? (Y/N) 
I
f no, the 
reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
11.
 D
etails of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year:
Name and brief 
details of project
EI
A Notification 
No.
D
ate
W
hether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in public domain (Yes 
/ No)
Relevant 
W
eb Link
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not 
Applicable
12.
 I
s the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in 
I
ndia; such as the 
W
ater (Prevention 
and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 
E
nvironment protection act and rules thereunder 

(Y/N). 
I
f not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
S.No.
Specify the law / 
regulation / guidelines 
which was not 
complied with
Provide details of the 
noncompliance
Any fines / penalties / action taken by 
 
regulatory agencies such as pollution 
 
control boards or by courts
Corrective 
 
action taken, 
 
if any
 Not Applicable. All 
relevant laws and 
regulations complied 
with
 Not Applicable. All 
relevant laws and 
regulations complied 
with
 Not Applicable. All relevant 
laws and regulations 
complied with
 Not Applicable. All 
relevant laws and 
regulations complied 
with
 Not Applicable. 
All relevant laws 
and regulations 
complied with
L
E
A
DE
RSH
I
P 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
RS
1.
 
Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable sources, in 
the following format:
Parameter
FY 2021-22  
 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21 
 
(Previous Financial Year)
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
1,18,84,55,36,400 
91,13,32,72,800 
Total fuel consumption (B)
0
0
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
-   
-   
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
1,18,84,55,36,400 
91,13,32,72,800 
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
8,31,91,42,54,800 
7,97,08,41,64,296 
Total fuel consumption (E)
3,92,50,33,90,500 
3,85,11,43,04,538 
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
 -
-
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (
D
+
E
+F)
12,24,41,76,45,300
11,82,19,84,68,834
 
I
ndicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
I
f yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
Yes. An independent assessment has been carried out by CII related to the Energy metrics within TSIL
2.
 
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 2021-22  
 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21 
 
(Previous Financial Year)
W
ater discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) 
 
To Surface water
0
0
 
- No treatment
0
0
 
- With treatment Œ please specify level of treatment
0
0
(ii) 
 
To Groundwater
0
0
 
- No treatment
0
0
 
- With treatment Œ please specify level of treatment
0
0
87
Parameter
FY 2021-22  
 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21 
 
(Previous Financial Year)
(iii) 
 
To Seawater
0
0
 
- No treatment
0
0
 
- With treatment Œ please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iv) 
 
Sent to third-parties
0
0
 
- No treatment
0
0
 
- With treatment Œ please specify level of treatment
0
0
(v) 
 
Others
0
0
 
- No treatment
0
0
 
- With treatment Œ please specify level of treatment
0
0
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
0
0
 
All the wastewater generated from the unit is being treated in the inhouse STP up to tertiary level. All the treated water recovered 
from the STP are being recycled for landscaping purpose thereby leading to ZLD.
 
I
ndicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
I
f yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
The values provided pertaining to water usage and management are from the internal water assessment and study carried out 
by Supreme. No external assurance has been carried out.
3.
 W
ater withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres)
 
None of the facilities or the manufacturing locations of Supreme are located in the areas of water stress , hence this disclosure 

requirement is not applicable.
4.
 
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2021-22  
 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21 
 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
Not Calculated FY 21-22
62085.23
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
 
Not Calculated FY 21-22
0.00000097 
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) Œ the 

relevant metric may be selected by the entity
Not Calculated FY 21-22
0.16 
 I
ndicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
I
f yes, 
name of the external agency. 
 
Not applicable as the same has not been calculated for this reporting period
5.
 W
ith respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of 
E
ssential 
I
ndicators above, provide details 
of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation 

activities.
 
The facilities of the organization are not present in any of the Ecologically sensitive areas.
6.
 I
f the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource efficiency, 
or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as 

outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
 
Supreme Industries have always strived to improve the resource efficiency. As a part of its renewable energy procurement policy, 
steps have been taken at multiple locations to purchase renewable electricity.
7.
 D
oes the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
 
The organization has a robust disaster management plan as a part of their risk management framework. The property of the 
company is insured against natural risks, like fire, flood, earthquakes, etc. 
 
Fire Hydrants have been installed at all manufacturing locations. Other apparatus like extinguishers filled with chemical, Foam 

etc. have been placed at fire sensitive locations and regular fire safety drills are carried out. 
 
First aid training is given to watch and ward staff and safety personnel. Workmen of the company are covered under ESI, EPF, 
etc., to serve the welfare of the workmen. Engaging professional Risks Assessing Advisors who conduct periodical audit / 
review 
and suggest risks improvement measures from time to time.
 
As explained in the risk management policy of TSIL - https://www.supreme.co.in/images/pdf/Risk-Management-Policy.pdf
8.
 D
isclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. 
W
hat mitigation or 
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
 
Value chain partners have not been assessed for environmental Impacts. This process will be initiated in the coming years.
9.
 
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental impacts.
 
Value chain partners have not been assessed for environmental Impacts. This process will be initiated in the coming years.
88
PR
I
NC
I
PL
E
 7:  BUS
I
N
E
SS
E
S, 
W
H
E
N 
E
NGAG
I
NG 
I
N 
I
NFLU
E
NC
I
NG PUBL
I
C AN
D
 R
E
GULAT
O
RY P
O
L
I
CY, SH
O
UL
D
 
DO
 
S
O
 
I
N A MANN
E
R THAT 
I
S R
E
SP
O
NS
I
BL
E
 AN
D
 TRANSPAR
E
NT
E
SS
E
NT
I
AL 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
R
1. 
 
a. 
 
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations: 
11
S. No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers / associations
1
Plastindia Foundation
2
Organisation of Plastic Processors of India (OPPI)
3
Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)
4
Automotive Component manufacturers Association of India (ACMA)
5
Indian Plastic Federation (IPF)
6
Indian Institute of Packaging (IIP)
7
Tool & Gauge Mfgrs. Association of India (TGMA)
8
Federation of Indian Export Organisation (FIEO)
9
Bureau of Indian standards (BIS)
10
Indian Green building council (IGBC)
11
Deccan Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture, Pune (DCCIA)
b. 
 
List the top 11 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the 
entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers / associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers 
/ associations (State / National)
1
Plastindia Foundation
National
2
Organisation of Plastic Processors of India (OPPI)
National
3
Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)
National
4
Automotive Component manufacturers Association of India (ACMA)
National
5
Indian Plastic Federation (IPF)
National
6
Indian Institute of Packaging (IIP)
National
7
Tool & Gauge Mfgrs. Association of India (TGMA)
National
8
Federation of Indian Export Organisation (FIEO)
National
9
Bureau of Indian standards (BIS)
National
10
Indian Green building council (IGBC)
National
11
Deccan Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture, Pune (DCCIA)
National
89
2. 
 
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, 
based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable as there have been no issues related to anti-competitive conduct
L
E
A
DE
RSH
I
P 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
RS
1. 
 D
etails of public policy positions advocated by the entity: 
 
Supreme regularly interacts and engages with Government bodies, regulators, legislative bodies etc. Supreme understands its 
responsibilities to operate within the democratic setup and constitutional framework. 
 
Supreme being one of leading manufacturer of plastic products in India, strives to be a part of chambers and associations. 
Company make recommendations / representations before Government bodies, regulators, legislative bodies, chambers and 

associations for advancement and improvement of plastic business in India.  The representatives of the Company, upon invitation, 

participate and play active role on associations constituted for development and representation of plastic industries.
 
Company ensures constancy of its public communications, disclosures with the Code of Conduct and the principles as outline 

in the relevant regulatory framework.
 
The Company shall promote consensus, co-operations, compliances, persuasion, and meaningful discussions instead of conflict 

on policy and regulatory matters.
 
Company believes that policy advocacy must preserve and expand public good and thus shall never advocate any policy change 
to benefit itself alone or a select few in a partisan manner.
PR
I
NC
I
PL
E
 8: BUS
I
N
E
SS
E
S SH
O
UL
D
 PR
O
M
O
T
E
 
I
NCLUS
I
V
E
 GR
OW
TH AN
D
 
E
QU
I
TABL
E
 
DE
V
E
L
O
PM
E
NT
E
SS
E
NT
I
AL 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
R
1. 
 D
etails of Social 
I
mpact Assessments (S
I
A) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year.
Name and brief 
details of project
S
I
A Notification 
No.
D
ate of 
notification
W
hether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in public domain 
 
(Yes / No)
Relevant 
W
eb 
link
No SIA has been undertaken during the reporting period and hence this section is not applicable.
2.
 
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your 
entity, in the following format:
S.No.
Name of Project for which 
R&R is ongoing
State 
D
istrict
No. of Project Affected 
Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs 
covered by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs in 
the FY (
I
n 
I
NR)
No R&R has been undertaken during the reporting period and hence this section is not applicable.
90
3.
 D
escribe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
 
Supreme has various mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of various stakeholders. Details of such mechanisms and 
policies is provided in this report Œ Essential indicator No.6, Principle 3.
4.
 
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers
Parameter
FY 2021-22  
 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21 
 
(Previous Financial Year)
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers 
1.05%
1.03%.
Sourced directly from within the district and neighbouring districts
 38.81%
 43.11%
L
E
A
DE
RSH
I
P 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
RS
1.
 
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social 
I
mpact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of 
E
ssential 
I
ndicators above):
D
etails of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable as the SIA has not been a requirement in any of the locations in the reporting year
2.
 
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as identified 

by government bodies:
S.No. 
State
Aspirational 
D
istrict
Amount spent (
I
n 
I
NR) 
Supreme has been instrumental in commissioning significant CSR programmes especially in the areas of their operation. 
Nevertheless none of the CSR projects implemented by Supreme are in the aspirational districts and hence this disclosure is 
not applicable.
3.
 
(a) 
 D
o you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising marginalized 
 
 
/vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
  
No such preferential procurement policy exists as of now.
(b) 
 
From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
  
Not Applicable
 
(c) 
 W
hat percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
 
Not Applicable
4.
 D
etails of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current 
financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
S.No.
I
ntellectual Property based on 
traditional knowledge
O
wned/ Acquired 
 
(Yes/No)
Benefit shared 
 
(Yes / No)
Basis of calculating 
benefit share
Not Applicable
5.
 D
etails of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes 
wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of Authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable
6.
 D
etails of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
 
Pl refer Annexure VII(A) and Annexure VII(B) of Board Report regarding CSR Activities and Activities undertaken under Corporate 
Social Responsibility, forming part of Annual Report Œ Page No. 25-32
91
PR
I
NC
I
PL
E
 9: BUS
I
N
E
SS
E
S SH
O
UL
D
 
E
NGAG
E
 
WI
TH AN
D
 PR
O
V
IDE
 VALU
E
 T
O
 TH
EI
R C
O
NSUM
E
RS 
I
N A R
E
SP
O
NS
I
BL
E
 
MANN
E
R
E
SS
E
NT
I
AL 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
R
1.
 D
escribe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
 
The Company (Supreme) has set up a robust system to resolve Customer complaints. The complaints received are analyzed and 
resolved. The Regional Marketing Officer gives the feedback of the complaints to the respective product marketing head. In case 
of any Quality issues the Production Team analyses the nature of the complaint and in coordination with Quality Department 

necessary correction is made. Customer complaint register is up dated once the actions on the complaint are over.  Customers 
can also reach by toll free number and other contact details as provided on the Company™s website.
2.
 
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
 
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social 
parameters relevant to the 
product
This information is presently not monitored. The organization has put in place plan of 
action to incorporate these aspects as a part of labelling / product information over short 
to medium term as a part of corporate sustainability strategy
Safe and responsible usage
This information is presently not monitored. The organization has put in place plan of 

action to incorporate these aspects as a part of labelling / product information over short 
to medium term as a part of corporate sustainability strategy
Recycling and/or safe disposal
This information is presently not monitored. The organization has put in place plan of 
action to incorporate these aspects as a part of labelling / product information over short 

to medium term as a part of corporate sustainability strategy
3.
 
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2021-22 (Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21 (Previous Financial Year)
Received 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Received 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Data privacy
0
0
 
0
0
 
Advertising
0
0
 
0
0
 
Cyber-security
0
0
 
0
0
 
Delivery of essential services
0
0
 
0
0
 
Restrictive Trade Practices
0
0
 
0
0
 
Unfair Trade Practices
0
0
 
0
0
 
Other
360
0
 Related to products 
and Bills. All these 
have been resolved.
268
0
 Related to products 
and Bills. All these 
have been resolved.
92
4.
 D
etails of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
 
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
Not applicable
Not applicable
Forced recalls
Not applicable
Not applicable
5.
 D
oes the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) 
I
f available, provide 
a web-link of the policy.
 
Yes, Supreme has an exclusive IT Policy which includes the cyber security and risks related to data privacy. Same us available 
on https://www.supreme.co.in/policies.php
6.
 
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken 

by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
 
No such event has been reported for the FY 2021-22 and hence not applicable.
L
E
A
DE
RSH
I
P 
I
N
DI
CAT
O
RS
1.
 
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if 

available). 
 
Supreme provides information about the product and services through its Website, News Paper /TV advertisements, MOBILE 
APP, Amazon, Flipkart, ,Facebook and  Instagram. Primary source of the information is our corporate website which can be 
accessed on https://www.supreme.co.in/index.php
2.
 
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
 
Information regarding usage of product and end use applications are given in the respective Product catalogue, Website of 
the Company and the mobile APP. The information on proper usage of Piping Systems is provided with live demonstrations to 

Plumbers, Architects and Distributors in Knowledge Centre set up. For furniture product, the Assembly Instructions Manual for 
Knock Down furniture requiring self-assembly is provided to the customers. For some product, visit to customers place is done 
to demonstrate the safety protocols.    
3.
 
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
 
The products and services offered by  Supreme does not constitute in the category of essential services and hence this 
disclosure 

is not applicable.
4.
 D
oes the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/
Not Applicable) 
I
f yes, provide details in brief. 
D
id your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction 
relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a 
whole? (Yes/No) 
 
The required information are given on all the products of the Company as required by the applicable laws. For some products, 
information over and above the mandated requirement is also provided. Customer satisfaction survey and the feedback   is 
a continuous process as the Channel Partners are in constant touch with the customers to ensure that this is communicated 
transparently across the value chain.    
5.
 
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
 
a.
 
Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact
 
b.
 
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers
 
No instances of data breach has been reported by TSIL in the FY 2021-22. 
93
Independent Auditors™ Report
To The Members of
 
The Supreme Industries Limited
Report on the Audit of Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial statements of The Supreme Industries Limited (ﬁthe Companyﬂ), which 
comprises of Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2022, the Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the Statement of Cash Flow for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information in which are included the financial statements 

of 24 manufacturing units, 27 Œ Depots, 7 Fabrication units and 6 offices located across India [hereinafter referred to as ﬁBranchesﬂ] 
for the year ended on that date audited by 9 branch auditors.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone 
financial 
statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act)  in the manner so required and give a true and fair 

view in conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act read with Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended, (ﬁInd ASﬂ) and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state 
of affairs of the Company as at 31
st
 March 2022, its profit (including other comprehensive income), changes in equity and its cash 
flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our 

responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditor™s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (ICAI) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the standalone financial statements 

under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. 
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and the audit evidences obtained by branch auditors in terms of their report 
referred to in the other matters section below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the standalone 

financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone financial 

statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone financial statements as 
a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Sr. 
No
Key Audit Matters
Auditor™s response
1.
Industrial Promotion Scheme (IPS) receivable of 
 
r
 85.88 crores as at March 31, 2022 
Other current and non-current assets include government 
grant receivable in the form of refund of Sales tax/GST 
under IPS Scheme of 
r
 85.88 crores as at March 31, 
2022 (Rs. 95.09 crores as at March 31, 2021) from the 

states of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and 
Rajasthan as per the respective schemes/ notifications 

announced/ issued by the aforesaid State Governments.
Post GST, the state of west Bengal is yet to notify the 
IPS scheme and accordingly, the Company has not 
recognized grant, since July 2017, in this regard. The 
amount whereof is presently not ascertainable. 
Management judgement is involved in assessing the 
accounting for grants and particularly in considering 
the probability of a grant being released and we have 
accordingly designated this as a focus area of the audit.
Audit procedures performed:
In response to the risk of completeness of the accruals in the 
standalone financial statements:
We have examined the eligibility certificates and obtained a list of 
year wise break- up of the IPS receivables by the Company for all 
the financial years. 
We had discussed the status of the assessment of grants receivable 
for all the financial years and the management view on the expected 
time frame by which the grants will be released. 
Additionally, we have considered the status of the previous 
assessments and the adjustments, if any, done by the respective 
concerned authorities.
Based on the procedures performed, those gave us sufficient 
evidence to conclude that the grants have been accounted in 
terms of the schemes/notifications announced/issued by various 
state governments.
Information Other than the Standalone Financial Statements and Auditor™s report thereon
The Company™s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of other information. The Other information comprises the 
information included in the Board™s Report including Annexures to the Board report, and Management Discussion and Analysis, but 
does not include the standalone financial statement and our auditor™s report thereon.
94
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing 
so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or our knowledge 

obtained during the course of our audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we required 
to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and those charged with Governance for the Standalone Financial Statements 
The Company™s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation 

of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance (including other 
comprehensive income), changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, including the accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act.
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application 
of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation 

and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the standalone financial statements that give a 
true and 
fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the management is responsible for assessing the Company™s ability to continue as 
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
The Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Company™s financial reporting process.
Auditor™s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor™s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high 
level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the 
audit. We also:
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide
 a 
basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from 
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 

circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Company 

has adequate internal financial control system in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls. 

made by the management. 

evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 

entity™s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention 

in our auditor™s report to the related disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor™s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause the entity to cease to continue as a going concern. 

whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 
 
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the standalone financial statements that individually or in aggregate makes it
 probable 
that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable user of the standalone financial statements may be influenced. We 
consider quantitative materiality and qualitative factors in (i) planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the 
results of our 

work and (ii) to evaluate the effect of an identified misstatements in the standalone financial statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. 
95
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance 
in the audit of the standalone financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these 
matters in our auditor™s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 

so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters:
We did not audit the financial statements of branches included in the standalone financial statements of the Company whose financial 

statements reflect the total assets of 
R
 3,268.27 crores as at March 31, 2022 (
R
 2,726.64 crores as at March 31, 2021) and total revenue 
of 
R
 7,469.79 crores for the year ended on that date (
R
 6,173.06 crores for the year ended March 31, 2021). The financial statements 
of these branches have been audited by the branch auditors whose reports have been furnished to us, and our opinion in so far as 

it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these branches, is based solely on the report of such branch auditors.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statement and our report on the other legal and regulatory requirements below is not 
modified in respect of this matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.
 
Pursuant to the Companies (Auditor™s Report) Order, 2020 (ﬁthe Orderﬂ), issued by the Central Government of India in terms 

of sub-section (11) of Section 143 of the Act, we give in the Annexure ﬁAﬂ a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 

and 4 of the Order.
2.
 
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
 
(a)
 
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were 

necessary for the purposes of our audit.
 
(b)
 
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our 

examination of those books and records.
 
(c)
 
The reports on the financial statements of branches of the Company audited under section 143(8) of the Act by nine firms 

of independent auditors have been sent to us and have been properly dealt with by us in preparing this report.
 
(d)
 
The Balance sheet, the Statement of Profit & Loss (including other comprehensive income), Statement of Changes in Equity 

and the Cash Flow Statement dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account.
 
(e)
 
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended.
 
(f)
 
On the basis of the written representation received from the directors as on March 31, 2022 taken on records by the Board 

of Directors, none of the directors are disqualified as on March 31, 2022 from being appointed as a Directors in terms of 
Section 164(2) of the Act.
 
(g)
 
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Company and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in Annexure ﬁBﬂ.
 
(h)
 
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor™s Report in accordance with the requirements of Sec 

197(16) of the Act, as amended:
  
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by 
the Company to its directors during the year is in accordance with the provisions of section 197 of the Act.
 
(i)
 
With respect to the matters to be included in the Auditor™s report in accordance with the rule 11 of the Companies (Audit 

and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us:
  
i.
 
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial performance in its standalone financial 
statements. [Refer note no 38 to standalone financial statements] 
  
ii.
 
The Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material 

foreseeable losses. 
  
iii.
 
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Company.
  
iv.
 
a) 
 
The management has represented that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material 

either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds 

or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other person or entity, 
including foreign entity (ﬁIntermediariesﬂ), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend to or invest in other persons or entities identified 

in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (ﬁUltimate Beneficiariesﬂ) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
96
   
b) 
 
The management has represented, that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material 
either individually or in the aggregate) have been received by the Company from any person or entity, including 
foreign entity (ﬁFunding Partiesﬂ), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the 
Company shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend to or invest in other persons or entities identified in any 

manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (ﬁUltimate Beneficiariesﬂ) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
   
c) 
 
Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, 
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representation under sub clause (i) and (ii) 
of Rule 11(e) of The Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as provided under (a) and (b) above, contains 
any material misstatement. (Refer note no. 49 to the standalone financial statement)
  
v.
 
a) 
 
The final dividend paid by the Company during the year in respect of the previous year is in accordance with 

Section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of dividend.
   
b) 
 
The interim dividend declared and paid by the Company during the year is in accordance with the Section 123 
of the Act.
   
c) 
 
As stated in the note 34(B) to the standalone financial statements, the Board of Directors of the Company has 
proposed final dividend for the year which is subject to the approval of the members at the ensuing annual 
general meeting. The dividend declared is in accordance with Section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
the declaration of dividend.
For 
LODHA & COMPANY
 
Chartered Accountants
 
Firm registration No. Œ 301051E
A. M. Hariharan
 
Partner
 
Membership No. 38323
 
UDIN: 22038323AIJDNG4508
Place : Mumbai
 
Date : April 29, 2022
97
Annexure A to the Independent Auditors™ Report
A
NN
EXU
R
E ﬁAﬂ 
R
E
F
E
RR
E
D
 T
O
 
IN
 ﬁRE
POR
T 
ON
 OT
H
E
R
 LE
GAL
 
AND
 RE
G
U
LA
T
ORY
 REQU
IR
E
M
E
N
T
S
ﬂ 
S
E
C
T
ION
 
OF
 
O
U
R
 
R
E
POR
T T
O
 T
H
E 
M
E
MB
E
RS
 
OF
 
TH
E SU
PR
E
M
E I
ND
U
S
T
RI
E
S
 L
IMI
TE
D
 
OF
 EVE
N
 
DA
TE:
i.
 
a.
 
In respect of Company™s Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) and Intangible Assets:
  
A.
 
The Company has maintained proper records, showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of 
PPE and relevant details of right-to-use assets.
  
B.
 
The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.
 
b.
 
As explained to us, the Company has a phased program for physical verification of the PPE for all locations. In our opinion, 
the frequency of verification is reasonable considering the size of the Company and nature of its PPE. Physical verification 
of the assets has been carried out during the year pursuant to the programme in that respect. According to the information 

and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records, no material discrepancies were noticed 
on such verification.
 
 
c.
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, the title deeds of immovable properties disclosed in the financial statements included under property, plant and 
equipment, other than properties where the company is lessee and lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the 
Company, are held in the name of the Company except the following:
Description of 
Property
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
 
(
r 
in Crores) 
Held in the 

name of
Whether 

promoter, director 
or their relative or 
employee
Period held: 

indicate a 
range, where 
appropriate
Reason for not being 

held in the name of 
Company
Free Hold land, 

non-Agricultural 1.14 
Hector, Gat No. 242/1 
& 2 of Mehrun Shivar 
back side of MIDC, 
Jalgaon
0.05
Mr. Shivratan 

Jeetmal Taparia
Director
Purchased on 

27/03/1987 
i.e., since last 
35 years
We have been informed 

that Company has 
obtained deed of 
declaration from the 
directors, mentioning they 
have no right on these 
properties.
Further due to some 
procedural/technical issues 
both the  the properties 
are  still not transferred in 
the name of the company.
Free Hold land, 
Agricultural 0.86 
Hector, Gat No. 244/2, 
3, 4 & 5 of Mehrun 
Shivar back side of 
MIDC, Jalgaon
0.38
Mr. Mahavir 

Prasad Surajmal 
Taparia
Director
Purchased on 
17/12/2004 
i.e. since last 
18 years
 
d.
 
The Company has not revalued any of its PPE (including right-of-use assets) and intangible assets during the year and hence 
reporting under clause 3(i)(d) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
 
e.
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records, neither any proceedings have been initiated during the year nor are pending as at March 31, 2022 for holding 
any benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988, as amended, and rules made thereunder and 

hence reporting under clause 3(i)(e) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
ii.
 
a. 
 
The inventories have been physically verified by the management at reasonable intervals during the year, except for goods 

in transit and those lying with third parties. The procedures of physical verification of the inventories followed by the 
management are reasonable and adequate in relation to the size of the Company and nature of it™s business. As per the 
information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records, no discrepancies of 10% or 

more in the aggregate for each class of inventory were noticed on physical verification of inventories as compared to book 

records.
 
b. 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records, the Company 
has not been sanctioned working capital limit in excess of 
r
 5 crores on the basis of security of current assets, in aggregate, 
at any point of time during the year from banks and financial institutions and hence reporting under clause 3(ii)(b) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.  
iii.
 
In respect of Investment in, provided any guarantee or security or granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans, secured 

or unsecured, to companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or any other parties:
 
(a)
 
The Company has not provided any loans or advances in the nature of loans or guarantee or provided security to any other 

entity during the year and hence reporting under clause 3(iii)(a) is not applicable to the Company.
 
(b)
 
According to the information and explanations given to us, investment made are in the ordinary course of business and in 
our opinion, prima facie, not prejudicial to the Company™s interest. 
 
(c)
 
The Company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans during the year and hence reporting under 
clauses 3(iii)(c), (d), (e) and (f) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
iv.
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records, the Company has complied with the provisions of section 185 and 186 of the Act, to the extent applicable with respect 
to the investments made during the year. The Company has not provided any loans, guarantee and security during the year. 
98
v.
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, no deposits or amounts which are deemed to 
be deposits within the meaning of Section 73 to 76 or any other relevant provisions of the Act and the Companies (Acceptance 
of Deposits) Rules, 2014 have been accepted by the Company and hence reporting under clause 3(v) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
vi.
 
We have broadly reviewed the books of account maintained by the Company pursuant to rules made by the central government 
for the maintenance of cost records under sub section 1 of section 148 of the Act in respect of company™s products and are of 
the opinion that, prima facie, the prescribed accounts and records have been made and maintained.  However, we have not 

made a detailed examination of the cost records with a view to determine whether they are accurate and complete. 
vii.
 
(a)
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records, the Company 

is generally regular in depositing undisputed statutory dues including Goods and Services tax, provident fund, employees™ 
state insurance, income tax, sales tax, custom duty, duty of excise, value added tax, cess and other statutory dues during 
the year with the appropriate authorities. No undisputed amounts payable in respect of the aforesaid statutory dues were 

outstanding as at the last day of the financial year for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
 
(b) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records, there are no 

statutory dues mentioned in clause vii (a) which have been not deposited on account of any dispute except the following:
Name of the statute
Nature of dues 
Amount
 
r
 in 
Crores
Period to which the 
amount relates
Forum where dispute is 
pending
The Central Excise Act, 1944
Excise Duty and 
Penalty
40.16
2000-01 to 2016-17
Custom Excise & Service Tax 
Appellate tribunal (CESTAT)
The Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 and 
Sales Tax / VAT / Entry Tax- Acts of 
various states
Sales Tax / VAT 
and Entry Tax
14.56
Various years from 

2000-01 to 2016-17
Joint / Deputy Commissioner 

/ Commissioner (Appeals)
1.30
Various Years from 

2002-03 to 2015-16
Sales tax Appellate Tribunal
1.88
Various Years from 

2002-03 to 2012-13
High Court
Deputy Commissioner Sales Tax 

Jalgaon
Profession tax
1.15
2012-13
Deputy commissioner of sales 

tax Jalgaon division Jalgaon
Maharashtra Land Revenue Code 1966
Royalty
0.28
2006-07
Collector - Pune
Bombay Stamp Act, 1958
Stamp Duty
1.13
2006
Deputy Inspector General 
of Registration and Deputy 
Collector of Stamps Pune
Maharashtra Land Revenue Code 1966
Royalty on sand
0.17
2020-21
Collector Khalapur Raigad
Local Authority (ADDA)
Development Fee
0.75
2009-10
ADDA
Professional Tax
Profession Tax
0.00*
2009-10
Deputy Commissioner 
Profession Tax (DGP) WB
The Employee™ Provident Funds & 
Miscellaneous Provision Act,1952
Provident Fund
0.05
2002-03 to -2005-05
The Regional Provident Fund 

Commissioner-Gwalior
Employee State Insurance Act-1948
ESIC
0.24
2007-08 to 2010-11
Regional Director Indore
  
* Represents amount below Rs. 1,000
viii.
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records, there were no 
transactions relating to previously unrecorded income that have been surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in 
the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and hence reporting under clause 3(viii) of the Order is not 

applicable to the Company.
ix.
 
(a)
 
Based on our audit procedures and on the basis of information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 

examination of the records, we are of the opinion that the Company has not defaulted in the repayment of loans or other 
borrowings or in the repayment of interest thereon to the lenders and hence reporting under clause 3(ix) of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company.
 
(b)
 
The Company has not been declared as willful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender.
 
(c)
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records, the Company has not taken any term loan during the year and hence reporting under clause 3(ix)(c) of the Order 
is not applicable to the Company.
 
(d)
 
On an overall examination of the standalone financial statements, in our opinion the Company has not utilized funds raised 

on short term basis for long term purposes. 
 
(e)
 
Based on our audit procedures and on the basis of information and explanations given to us, the Company has not taken 

any funds from any entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries, associates or joint venture 

and hence reporting under clause 3(ix)(e) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
 
(f)
 
Based on our audit procedures and on the basis of information and explanations given to us, during the year the Company 

has not raised any funds on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries, joint venture and associates and hence reporting 
under clause 3(ix)(f) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
99
x.
 
(a) 
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not raised any money by 
way of Initial public offer or further public offer (including debt instrument) during the year and hence reporting under 
clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
 
(b) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and based on our examination of the records of the Company, 
the Company has not made any preferential allotment, private placement of shares or fully or partly convertible debentures 
during the year or in the recent past and hence reporting under clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xi.
 
(a) 
 
During the course of our examination of the books and records of the Company, carried out in accordance with the 

generally accepted auditing practices in India and according to the information and explanations given to us, we have 
neither come across any instance of fraud by or on the Company, noticed or reported during the year, nor have we been 
informed of such case by the management except fraud by way of embezzlement by an employee at its manufacturing Unit 

at Gadegaon, audited by the Branch Auditor of that Unit, involving an amount of Rs. 0.17 crore, which has been recovered 
from the employee.
 
(b)
 
During the year, no report under sub section 12 of Section 143 of the Act has been filed in Form ADT-4 as prescribed in 
Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central Government.
 
(c)
 
Based on our audit procedure performed and according to the information and explanations given to us, no whistle blower 
complaints were received by the Company during the year and hence reporting under clause 3(xi)(c) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
xii.
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records
, 

the Company is not a Nidhi Company and hence reporting under clause 3(xii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xiii.
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and based on our examination of the records of the Company, all the 

transactions with related parties are in compliance with Section 177 and 188 of the Act and all the details have been disclosed 
in the standalone financial statements as required by the applicable Accounting Standard. (Refer note no. 40 to the standalone 
financial statements)
xiv.
 
(a) 
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has an adequate internal audit 
system commensurate with the size and nature of its business. 
 
(b)
 
We have considered the internal audit reports for the year under audit issued to the Company during the year and till date, 
in determining nature, timing and extent of our audit procedure. 
xv.
 
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions 

prescribed under Section 192 of the Act with directors or persons connected with them during the year.
xvi.
 
(a) 
 
The Company is not required to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 and hence 

reporting under clause 3(xvi) (a), (b) and (c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
 
(b) 
 
In our opinion, there is no core investment company within the ﬁCompanies in the Groupﬂ as defined in the Core 

Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016 and hence reporting under clause 3(xvi)(d) of the Order is not 

applicable to the Company. 
xvii.
 
The Company has not incurred any cash losses during the financial year covered by our audit and immediately preceding 

financial year.
xviii.
 
There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors of the Company during the year and hence reporting under clause 
3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xix.
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected dates 

of realisation of financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, other information accompanying the standalone 
financial 
statements and our knowledge of the Board of Directors and management plans and based on our examination of the evidence 

supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to believe that any material uncertainty exists 
as on the date of the audit report indicating that the Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date of 
balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. We, however, state that this 

is not an assurance as to the future viability of the Company. We further state that our reporting is based on the facts up to the 

date of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of 
one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the Company as and when they fall due.
xx.
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records, there are no 
amounts unspent in respect of corporate social responsibility towards ongoing or other than ongoing projects and hence 

reporting under clause 3(xx) (a) and (b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
For 
LODHA & COMPANY
 
Chartered Accountants
 
Firm registration No. Œ 301051E
A.M. Hariharan
 
Partner
 
Membership No. 38323
 
UDIN: 22038323AIJDNG4508
Place : Mumbai
 
Date : April 29, 2022
100
Annexure B to the Independent Auditors™ Report
A
NN
EXU
R
E ﬁBﬂ 
R
E
F
E
RR
E
D
 T
O
 
IN
 ﬁRE
POR
T 
ON
 OT
H
E
R
 LE
GAL
 
AND
 RE
G
U
LA
T
ORY
 REQU
IR
E
M
E
N
T
S
ﬂ 
S
E
C
T
ION
 
OF
 
O
U
R
 
R
E
POR
T T
O
 T
H
E 
M
E
MB
E
RS
 
OF
 
TH
E SU
PR
E
M
E I
ND
U
S
T
RI
E
S
 L
IMI
TE
D
 
OF
 EVE
N
 
DA
TE: 
Report on the Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 
143 of the Act
We have audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting of The Supreme Industries Limited (ﬁthe Companyﬂ) as of 
March 31, 2022 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.
Management™s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The Board of Directors of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal 

control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential component of internal control 
stated in 

the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India (ICAI). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that 
were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to company™s policies, 

the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 

records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditors™ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company™s internal financial controls over financial reporting based on our audit. 

We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the 

ﬁGuidance Noteﬂ) and the Standards on Auditing deemed to be prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act to the extent applicable 
to an audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to an audit of internal financial controls and both issued by the ICAI. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 

reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting was established and maintained 

and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects. 
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system 
over financial reporting and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting included 
obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, 

and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedure
s 

selected depend on the auditor™s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial 

statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
Company™s internal financial controls system over financial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting
A Company™s internal financial control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 

reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of standalone financial statements for external purposes in accordance w
ith 

generally accepted accounting principles. A Company™s internal financial control over financial reporting includes those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 

preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 
expenditures 
of the entity are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management;(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the entity™s assets that could have a material effect 

on the standalone financial statements; and (4) also provide reasonable assurance by the internal auditors through their internal audit 

reports given to the organisation from time to time.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or 

improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, 

projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that 
the internal financial control over financial reporting may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree 
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
101
Opinion
In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the Company has, broadly, in all material 
respects, an adequate internal financial controls system over financial reporting and such internal financial controls over financial 

reporting were operating effectively as at March 31, 2022, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established 
by the Company considering the essential Component of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
For 
LODHA & COMPANY
 
Chartered Accountants
 
Firm registration No. Œ 301051E
A.M. Hariharan
 
Partner
 
Membership No. 38323
 
UDIN: 22038323AIJDNG4508
Place : Mumbai    
Date : April 29, 2022
102
I
 in Crores
PAR
T
IC
U
LARS
Note
As at 31ŒMarŒ22
As at 31ŒMarŒ21
ASS
ET
S
(1)
 
NON - C
U
RR
E
N
T
 ASS
ET
S
 
(a) 
 
Property, plant & equipment
2
1682.11
1636.16
 
(b) 
 
Capital work-in-progress
3
154.59
49.62
 
(c) 
 
Intangible assets
4
6.44
10.96
 
(d) 
 
Intangible assets under development
4A
1.18
1.40
 
(e) 
 
Right to use - Lease
5
78.73
67.16
 
(f) 
 
Financial assets
  
(i) 
 
Investment in associate & subsidiary
6
16.20
33.56
  
(ii)
 
Other investments
6
5.67
5.40
  
(iii) 
 
Deposits
7
22.41
20.19
  
(iv) 
 
Loans
8
1.17
45.45
1.08
60.23
 
(g) 
 
Other non-current assets
10
98.05
93.14
T
O
T
AL NON - C
U
RR
E
N
T
 ASS
ET
S
2066.55
1918.67
(2) 
 
C
U
RR
E
N
T
 ASS
ET
S
 
(a) 
 
Inventories
11
1260.16
760.76
 
(b) 
 
Financial assets
  
(i) 
 
Trade receivables
12
466.76
390.09
  
(ii) 
 
Cash & cash equivalents
13
517.71
759.46
  
(iii) 
 
Other bank balances
14
7.36
6.88
  
(iv) 
 
Deposits
7
1.86
4.84
  
(v) 
 
Loans
8
4.04
1.65
  
(vi) 
 
Other financial assets
9
18.83
1016.56
0.54
1163.46
 
(c) 
 
Income tax assets (net)
23
15.42
 - 
 
(d) 
 
Other current assets
10
181.67
139.74
 
(e) 
 
Assets held for disposal
 - 
0.02
T
O
T
AL C
U
RR
E
N
T
 ASS
ET
S
2473.81
2063.98
T
O
T
AL ASS
ET
S
4540.36
3982.65
EQU
I
T
Y AND LIABILI
T
I
E
S

EQU
I
T
Y

Equity share capital
15
25.41
25.41
Other equity
16
3362.53
2843.76
T
O
T
AL 
EQU
I
T
Y
3387.94
2869.17
LIABILI
T
I
E
S

(1) 
 
NON - C
U
RR
E
N
T
 LIABILI
T
I
E
S
 
(a) 
 
Financial liabilities
  
(i) 
 
Borrowings
17
 - 
0.61
  
(ii) 
 
Deposits
18
4.03
4.30
  
(iii) 
 
Lease liabilities
32.29
36.32
25.66
30.57
 
(b) 
 
Provisions
19
24.39
22.42
 
(c) 
 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
31
90.44
91.92
T
O
T
AL NON - C
U
RR
E
N
T
 LIABILI
T
I
E
S
151.15
144.91
(2) 
 
C
U
RR
E
N
T
 LIABILI
T
I
E
S
 
(a) 
 
Financial liabilities
  
(i) 
 
Borrowings
17
 - 
0.35
  
(ii) 
 
Trade payables
20
   
Dues of micro, small and medium enterprises
22.15
12.32
   
Dues of creditors other than micro, small and medium enterprises
772.94
634.40
  
(iii) 
 
Deposits
18
1.68
0.87
  
(iv) 
 
Lease liabilities
13.39
11.05
  
(v) 
 
Other financial liabilities
21
49.14
859.30
127.57
786.56
 
(b) 
 
Other current liabilities
22
134.37
168.07
 
(c) 
 
Provisions
19
7.60
7.41
 
(d) 
 
Income tax liabilities (net)
23
 - 
6.53
T
O
T
AL C
U
RR
E
N
T
 LIABILI
T
I
E
S
1001.27
968.57
T
O
T
AL 
EQU
I
T
Y AND LIABILI
T
I
E
S
4540.36
3982.65
Significant Accounting Policies.
1
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Standalone financial statements
As per our attached report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For 
LODHA & COMPANY
Chartered Accountants
B. L. 
T
aparia
M. P. 
T
aparia
S. J. 
T
aparia
V
. K. 
T
aparia
FRN Œ 301051E
Chairman
Managing Director
Executive Director
Executive Director
(DIN No. 00112438)
(DIN No. 00112461)
(DIN No. 00112513)
(DIN No. 00112567)
R. M. Pandia
Ameeta Parpia
R. Kannan
Sarthak Behuria
A.M. Hariharan
Director
Director
Director
Director
Partner
(DIN No. 00021730)
(DIN No. 02654277)
(DIN No. 00380328)
(DIN No. 03290288)
P. C. Somani
R. J. Saboo
Mumbai, 29
th
 April, 2022
Chief Financial Officer
VP (Corporate Affairs) & Company Secretary
Balance Sheet as at 31
st
 March, 2022
103
As per our attached report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For 
LODHA & COMPANY
Chartered Accountants
B. L. 
T
aparia
M. P. 
T
aparia
S. J. 
T
aparia
V
. K. 
T
aparia
FRN Œ 301051E
Chairman
Managing Director
Executive Director
Executive Director
(DIN No. 00112438)
(DIN No. 00112461)
(DIN No. 00112513)
(DIN No. 00112567)
R. M. Pandia
Ameeta Parpia
R. Kannan
Sarthak Behuria
A.M. Hariharan
Director
Director
Director
Director
Partner
(DIN No. 00021730)
(DIN No. 02654277)
(DIN No. 00380328)
(DIN No. 03290288)
P. C. Somani
R. J. Saboo
Mumbai, 29
th
 April, 2022
Chief Financial Officer
VP (Corporate Affairs) & Company Secretary
I
 in Crores
PAR
T
IC
U
LARS
Note
2021 Œ 2022
2020 Œ 2021
INCOM
E
Revenue from operations
24
7772.81
6355.13
Other income
25
67.70
7840.51
28.46
6383.59
EX
P
E
NDI
TU
R
E
Cost of materials consumed
26
5428.93
3763.54
Purchase of stock-in-trade
136.50
128.59
Changes in inventories of finished goods, Semi finished goods and 
stock-in-trade
27
 (212.27)
150.53
Employee benefits expenses
28
344.30
309.35
Finance costs
29
5.15
22.05
Depreciation and amortisation expense
2, 4, 5
229.52
212.78
Other expenses
30
833.16
6765.29
718.84
5305.68
PROFI
T
 B
E
FOR
E
 
T
A
X
1075.22
1077.91
T
A
X
 
EX
P
E
NS
E
S
31
Current tax
264.81
274.72
Deferred tax (credit)/charge
 (1.48)
263.33
1.81
276.53
PROFI
T
 AF
TE
R 
T
A
X
811.89
801.38
O
T
H
E
R COMPR
E
H
E
NSI
VE
 INCOM
E
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Re-measurement of defined employee benefit plans
 (1.25)
 (1.74)
Income tax relating to Re-measurement of defined employee 
benefit plans
0.31
 (0.94)
0.44
 (1.30)
T
O
T
AL COMPR
E
H
E
NSI
VE
 INCOM
E
810.95
800.08
E
ARNINGS P
E
R SHAR
E
37
Basic & diluted earning per share (In 
r
)
63.91
63.09
(Face value of 
r
 2 each)
Significant Accounting Policies
1
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Standalone 
financial statements
Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended on 31
st
 March, 2022
104
I
 in Crores
PAR
T
IC
U
LARS
2021 Œ 2022
2020 Œ 2021
A.
 
CASH FLOW FROM OP
E
RA
T
ING AC
T
I
V
I
T
I
E
S
Net profit before tax
1075.22 
1077.91
Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to cashflows :
Depreciation and amortisation expense
229.52 
213.02 
Interest expenses
5.06 
21.97 
Provision for doubtful debts/Bad debts
0.04 
1.46 
Foreign currency exchange fluctuation
16.50 
2.04 
Share of profit in partnership firm
(0.28)
(0.10)
Dividend received from an associate
(47.75)
(11.57)
Interest income
(0.92)
(0.85)
Excess liabilities written back
(8.30)
(7.49)
(Profit)/Loss on sale of liquid mutual funds
(9.37)
(9.37)
(Profit) /Loss on sale of property, plant & equipments
(2.98)
(3.85)
(Profit) /Loss on sale of investments
(5.40)
 - 
Fair value adjustments
(0.42)
175.70 
(0.80)
204.96 
Operating profit before working capital changes
1250.92 
1282.87 
Adjustments for :
Change in working capital
(Increase)/decrease in inventories
(499.40)
129.80 
(Increase)/decrease in trade receivable
(76.71)
(78.89)
(Increase)/decrease in other assets
(26.87)
(29.92)
Increase/(decrease) in trade payables
142.66 
103.99 
Increase/(decrease) in other liabilities
(32.70)
(493.02)
70.02 
195.00 
Cash generated from operations
757.90 
1477.87 
Direct taxes paid (net of refund)
(286.75)
(232.17)
 
N
ET
 CASH FLOW FROM OP
E
RA
T
ING AC
T
I
V
I
T
I
E
S ( A )
471.15 
1245.70 
B. CASH FLOW FROM IN
VE
S
T
ING AC
T
I
V
I
T
I
E
S
Purchase of property, plant & equipment
(469.94)
(226.60)
Sale of property, plant & equipment
3.89 
5.59 
Purchase of non-current investments
 - 
(0.03)
Proceeds from sale of non-current investments
5.42 
 - 
Purchase of liquid mutual funds
(2265.54)
(2069.04)
Sale of liquid mutual funds
2274.01 
2077.04 
Interest received
0.92 
0.85 
Dividend received from an associate
47.75 
11.57 
 
N
ET
 CASH 
U
S
E
D IN IN
VE
S
T
ING AC
T
I
V
I
T
I
E
S ( B )
(403.49)
(200.62)
C. CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING AC
T
I
V
I
T
I
E
S
Repayment of long term borrowings (Refer Note 44)
(0.70)
(0.35)
Increase/(Decrease) in short term borrowings (Refer Note 44)
(0.35)
(410.06)
Interest paid
(1.00)
(16.58)
Payment of lease liabilities
(16.08)
(15.00)
Dividend & corporate dividend tax paid
(292.18)
(63.51)
N
ET
 CASH 
U
S
E
D IN FINANCING AC
T
I
V
I
T
I
E
S ( C )
(310.31)
(505.50)
N
ET
 INCR
E
AS
E
 / (D
E
CR
E
AS
E
) IN CASH & CASH 
EQU
I
V
AL
E
N
T
S (A+B+C)
(242.65)
539.58 
Opening balance at beginning of the year
759.46 
218.50 
Effect of fair value of Liquid mutual funds
0.90 
1.38 
Closing balance at end of the year
517.71 
759.46 
Significant Accounting Policies
1
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the 
Standalone financial statements
As per our attached report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For 
LODHA & COMPANY
Chartered Accountants
B. L. 
T
aparia
M. P. 
T
aparia
S. J. 
T
aparia
V
. K. 
T
aparia
FRN Œ 301051E
Chairman
Managing Director
Executive Director
Executive Director
(DIN No. 00112438)
(DIN No. 00112461)
(DIN No. 00112513)
(DIN No. 00112567)
R. M. Pandia
Ameeta Parpia
R. Kannan
Sarthak Behuria
A.M. Hariharan
Director
Director
Director
Director
Partner
(DIN No. 00021730)
(DIN No. 02654277)
(DIN No. 00380328)
(DIN No. 03290288)
P. C. Somani
R. J. Saboo
Mumbai, 29
th
 April, 2022
Chief Financial Officer
VP (Corporate Affairs) & Company Secretary
Cash Flow Statement for the year ended on 31
st
 March, 2022
105
v
 In Crores
EQU
I
T
Y SHAR
E
 CAPI
T
AL :
Paid up capital (Refer 
Note 15)
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
25.41
Changes in equity share capital during the year
 - 
Changes in Equity Share Capital due to prior period errors
 - 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
25.41
Changes in equity share capital during the year
 - 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
25.41
O
T
H
E
R 
EQU
I
T
Y :
Reserves and Surplus
Accumulated 
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Particulars
Capital 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Actuarial gains/
(losses)
T
otal
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
2.45
47.49
2.22
2065.79
-
(10.77)
2107.18 
Profit for the year
801.38
801.38 
Remeasurements of net defined benefit 
plans (Net of Taxes)
(1.30)
(1.30)
Interim dividend paid for FY 2020-21
(63.50)
(63.50)
Transfer to general reserve
(521.92)
(521.92)
Transfer from Statement of profit & loss
521.92
521.92 
Changes in accounting policies or prior 

period errors
 - 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
2.45
47.49
2.22
2587.71
215.96
(12.07)
2843.76
Profit for the year
811.89
811.89
Remeasurements of net defined benefit 

plans (Net of Taxes)
(0.94)
 (0.94)
Final dividend paid for FY 2020-21
(215.96)
 (215.96)
Interim dividend paid for FY 2021-22
(76.22)
 (76.22)
Transfer to general reserve
(507.02)
 (507.02)
Transfer from Statement of profit & loss
507.02 
507.02
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
2.45
47.49
2.22
3094.73
228.65
(13.01)
3362.53
Significant Accounting Policies
1
T
he accompanying notes are an integral part of the Standalone financial statements
 Statement of Changes in 
E
quity for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022
As per our attached report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For 
LODHA & COMPANY
Chartered Accountants
B. L. 
T
aparia
M. P. 
T
aparia
S. J. 
T
aparia
V
. K. 
T
aparia
FRN Œ 301051E
Chairman
Managing Director
Executive Director
Executive Director
(DIN No. 00112438)
(DIN No. 00112461)
(DIN No. 00112513)
(DIN No. 00112567)
R. M. Pandia
Ameeta Parpia
R. Kannan
Sarthak Behuria
A.M. Hariharan
Director
Director
Director
Director
Partner
(DIN No. 00021730)
(DIN No. 02654277)
(DIN No. 00380328)
(DIN No. 03290288)
P. C. Somani
R. J. Saboo
Mumbai, 29
th
 April, 2022
Chief Financial Officer
VP (Corporate Affairs) & Company Secretary
106
1.
 
BASIS OF PR
E
PARA
T
ION, M
E
AS
U
R
E
M
E
N
T
 AND SIGNIFICAN
T
 ACCO
U
N
T
ING POLICI
E
S
1.1
 
COMPANY O
VE
R
V
I
E
W:
 
The Supreme Industries Limited (ﬁthe Companyﬂ) is public limited company incorporated and domiciled in India and has 
registered office at 612, Raheja Chambers, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400021. It is incorporated under the Indian Companies 
Act, 1913 and its shares are listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange Limited and National Stock Exchange in India.
 
The Company is one of the leading plastic products manufacturing company in India having 25 manufacturing facilities spread 
across the country, offering a wide and comprehensive range of plastic products in India. The company operates in various 
product categories viz. Plastic Piping System, Cross Laminated Films & Products, Protective Packaging Products, Industrial 
Moulded Components, Moulded Furniture, Storage & Material Handling Products, Performance Packaging Films and Composite 

LPG Cylinders.
 
The standalone financial statements are approved for issue by the Company™s Board of Directors on 29
th
 April, 2022.
1.2
 
BASIS OF ACCO
U
N
T
ING
 
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (hereinafter referred to as 

the ‚Ind AS™) as prescribed under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (ﬁthe Actﬂ) read with Companies (Indian Accounting 
standards) Rules, 2015 as amended and other relevant provisions of the Act.
 
The financial statements are prepared and presented on accrual basis and under the historical cost convention, except for the 
following material items that have been measured at fair value as required by the relevant Ind AS:
 
a) 
 
Certain financial assets and liabilities are measured at Fair value and derivative financial instruments (Refer accounting 
policy on financial instruments - Refer Note 1.10 below)
 
b) 
 
Defined Benefit and other Long-term Employee Benefits - Refer Note 1.12 below
 
Rounding off
 
All amounts disclosed in the financial statements and notes have been rounded off to the nearest crores.
1.3
 U
S
E
 OF 
E
S
T
IMA
TE
S AND J
U
DG
E
M
E
N
T
S
 
The preparation of the financial statements requires that the Management to make estimates and assumptions that affect 
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent liabilities as at the date of the financial statements and 
the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. The recognition, measurement, classification or 
disclosure of an item or information in the financial statements is made relying on these estimates.
 
The estimates and judgements used in the preparation of the financial statements are continuously evaluated and are based 
on historical experience and various other assumptions and factors (including expectations of future events) that the Company 
believes to be reasonable under the existing circumstances. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Any revision to 

accounting estimates is recognised prospectively in current and future periods.
 
Current and non-current classification
 
All the assets and liabilities have been classified as current or non-current as per the company™s normal operating cycle (not 
exceeding twelve months) and other criteria set out in Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013.
 
Areas involving critical estimates and Judgements are:
 
-
 
Estimation of employee defined benefit obligations (Refer note no. 1.12 below)
 
-
 
Estimation of current tax expenses (Refer note no. 1.15 below)
 
- 
 
Estimation of provisions and contingent liabilities (Refer note no. 1.17 below)
1.4
 
PROP
E
R
T
Y, PLAN
T
 AND 
EQU
IPM
E
N
T
 & IN
T
ANGIBL
E
 ASS
ET
S
 
Property, Plant and 
E
quipment
 
Freehold land is carried at historical cost. All other items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated 

depreciation and impairment losses, if any. Costs include freight, import duties, non-refundable purchase taxes and other 
expenses directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
 
Subsequent costs are included in the asset™s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it 

is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be 
measured reliably. The carrying amount of any component accounted for as a separate asset is derecognized when replaced. 
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss during the reporting period in which they are 

incurred.
 
Leasehold land is stated at historical cost less amounts written off proportionate to expired lease period.
 
Intangible Assets
 
Intangible assets are held on the balance sheet at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Intangible assets 

developed or acquired with finite useful life are amortized on straight line basis over the useful life as specified below:
Notes to the Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022
107
Category
U
seful Life
Computer Software and Licenses
3 to 5 years
Right to Use
5 years
 
Capital Work-in-progress and Pre-operative 
E
xpenses during Construction Period
 
Capital Work-in-Progress includes expenditure during construction period incurred on projects under implementation treated 
as pre-operative expenses pending allocation to the assets. These expenses are apportioned to the respective fixed assets on 
their completion / commencement of commercial production.
 
Depreciation/amortisation:
 
Depreciation is provided on the straight-line method applying the useful lives as prescribed in part C of Schedule II to the 
Companies Act, 2013. The range of estimated useful lives of Property, Plant & Equipment™s are as under:
Category
U
seful Life
Buildings (including roads)
3- 60 Years
Plant & Equipment*
7- 25 Years
Moulds & Dies*
2- 6 Years
Furniture & Fixture
10 Years
Office Equipment
3 - 5 Years
Vehicles
6 - 10 Years
 
* Useful life of Plant & Equipment of Plastic Piping System Division, Protective Packaging Division and Cross Laminated 

Film Division and Moulds and Dies are determined based on the internal assessment supported by independent technical 

evaluation carried out by external valuers.
 
The management believes that the useful life as given above the best represent the period over which the management expects 

to use these assets. The Company reviews the useful lives and residual value at each reporting date.
 
Depreciation on assets added/sold or discarded during the year is being provided on pro-rata basis up to the date on which 

such assets are added/sold or discarded. Leasehold Land is amortized over the period of lease.
 
Assets costing up to 
r
 10,000 each are depreciated fully in the year of purchase.
 
Gains/Losses on disposals/de-recognition of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing proceeds with 

carrying amount and these are recognized in statement of profit & Loss.
 
Assets held for sale
 
Non-current assets or disposal groups comprising of assets and liabilities are classified as ‚held for sale™ when all of the following 

criteria™s are met:
 
(i) 
 
decision has been made to sell.
 
(ii) 
 
the assets are available for immediate sale in its present condition.
 
(iii)
 
the assets are being actively marketed and
 
(iv) 
 
sale has been agreed or is expected to be concluded within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date.
 
Subsequently, such non-current assets and disposal groups classified as ‚held for sale™ are measured at the lower of its carrying 

value and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current assets held for sale are not depreciated or amortised.
1.5
 
IMPAIRM
E
N
T
 OF NON-FINANCIAL ASS
ET
S
 
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a non-financial asset or a group of 

non-financial assets are impaired. If any such indication exists, the Company estimates the amount of impairment loss. For the 

purpose of assessing impairment, the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that 
are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets is considered as a cash generating unit. If any 
such indication exists, an estimate of the recoverable amount of the individual asset/cash generating unit is made.
 
An impairment loss is calculated as the difference between an asset™s carrying amount and recoverable amount. Losses are 

recognised in profit or loss and reflected in an allowance account. When the Company considers that there are no realistic 
prospects of recovery of the asset, the relevant amounts are written off. If the amount of impairment loss subsequently decreases 
and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, then the previously 

recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.
1.6
 
R
EVE
N
UE
 FROM CON
T
RAC
T
S WI
T
H C
U
S
T
OM
E
RS
 
The Company recognizes revenue, when or as control over distinct goods or services is transferred to the customer; i.e. when 

the customer is able to direct the use of the transferred goods or services and obtains substantially all of the remaining benefits, 
provided a contract with enforceable rights and obligations exists and amongst others collectability of consideration is probable 
taking into account customer ‚s creditworthiness.
Notes to the Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022
108
 
Revenue is the transaction price the Company expects to be entitled to. In determining the transaction price, the Company 
considers effects of variable consideration, the existence of significant financing contracts, noncash consideration and 
consideration payable to the customer, if any.
 V
ariable Consideration
 
If the consideration in a contract includes a variable amount, the company estimates the amount of consideration to which it 

will be entitled to in exchange for transferring goods to the customer. Some contracts with the customers provide them with 

a right to return and volume rebates. The right to return and volume rebates gives rise to variable consideration. The amount 
of variable consideration is calculated by either using the expected value or the most likely amount depending on which is 

expected to better predict the amount of variable consideration.
 
Sale of goods:
 Revenues are recognized at a point in time when control of the goods passes to the buyer, usually upon either at 

the time of dispatch or delivery. In case of export sale, it is usually recognised based on the shipped-on board date as per bill of 
lading. Revenue from sale of goods is net of taxes and recovery of charges collected from customers like transport, packing etc.
 
Sale of services: 
Revenues are recognized over time on a straight-line basis or, if the performance pattern is other than straight-
line, as services are provided/rendered.
 
Other operating income: -
 Export Incentive under various schemes are accounted in the year of export.
 
Other Income
 
Dividend income on investments is recognised when the right to receive dividend is established.
 
Interest income is recognized on a time proportionate basis taking into account the amounts invested and the rate of interest. 

For all financial instruments measured at amortised cost, interest income is recorded using the Effective interest rate method to 
the net carrying amount of the financial assets.
1.7
 
CON
T
RAC
T
 BALANC
E
S
 
T
rade Receivables:
 
A receivable represents the Company™s right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional (i.e. only a passage of time is 

required to before payment of the consideration is due).
 
Contract liabilities:
 
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the company has received 
consideration 
(or an amount of consideration is due) from the customer. If a customer pays consideration before the company transfer goods 

and services to the customer, a contract liability is recognised when the payment is made or the payment is due, whichever is 
earlier. Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when the company performs under the contract.
1.8
 
GO
VE
RNM
E
N
T
 GRAN
T
S
 
Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received, and all attached 

conditions will be complied with. Government grants related to revenue are recognised on a systematic basis in the statement 
of profit and loss over the periods necessary to match them with the related costs which they are intended to compensate. Such 
grants are deducted in reporting the related expense. When the grant relates to an asset, it is recognized as income over the 
expected useful life of the asset.
 
In case a non-monetary asset is given free of cost it is recognised at a fair value. When loan or similar assistance are provided 
by government or related institutions, with an interest rate below the current applicable market rate, the effect of this favorable 
interest is recognized as government grant. The loan or assistance is initially recognized and measured at fair value and the 
government grant is measured as the difference between the initial carrying value of the loan and the proceeds received.
1.9
 
IN
VE
N
T
ORI
E
S
 
Inventories includes raw material, semi finished goods, stock -in -trade, finished goods, stores & spares, consumables, packing 
materials, goods for resale and material in transit are valued at lower of cost and net realizable value.
 
Raw Material and Components 
- Cost include cost of purchases and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their 
present location and condition. Cost is determined using weighted average basis.
 
Finished/Semi-Finished Goods
 - Cost includes cost of direct material, labor, other direct cost (Including variable costs) and a 
proportion of fixed manufacturing overheads allocated based on the normal operating capacity but excluding borrowing costs. 
Cost is determined on weighted average basis.
 
Stock-in-trade
 - Cost includes cost of purchase and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and 

conditions.
 
Stores, Spare Parts, Consumables, Packing Materials etc.
 - Cost is determined on weighted average basis.
 
Goods for Resale
 - Cost is determined on weighted average basis.
 
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated cost of completion 
and 
the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
 
Adequate allowance is made for obsolete and slow-moving items.
Notes to the Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022
109
1.10
 
FINANCIAL INS
T
R
U
M
E
N
T
S
 
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument 
of another entity.
 
Financial assets - Initial recognition
 
Financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments. Financial 

assets other than trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not 
carried 

at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, 
and transaction costs are expensed in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
 
Subsequent measurement
 
Financial assets, other than equity instruments, are subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through other 
comprehensive income or fair value through profit or loss on the basis of both:
 
(i) 
 
the entity™s business model for managing the financial assets and
 
(ii) 
 
the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
 
(a) 
 
Measured at amortised cost:
  
A financial asset is measured at amortised cost, if it is held under the hold to collect business model i.e. held with an 

objective of holding the assets to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual cash flows are solely payments of 
principal and interest on the principal outstanding. Amortised cost is calculated using the effective interest rate (ﬁEIRﬂ) 
method by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. 

The EIR amortisation is included in interest income in the Statement of Profit and Loss. The losses arising from impairment 
are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss. On derecognition, gain or loss, if any, is recognised to Statement of Profit 
and Loss.
 
(b) 
 
Measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (F
V
OCI):
  
A financial asset is measured at FVOCI, if it is held under the hold to collect and sell business model i.e. held with an 

objective to collect contractual cash flows and selling such financial asset and the contractual cash flows are solely payments 
of principal and interest on the principal outstanding. It is subsequently measured at fair value with fair value movements 
recognised in the OCI, except for interest income which recognised using EIR method. The losses arising from impairment 

are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss. On derecognition, cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the 
OCI is reclassified from the equity to Statement of Profit and Loss.
 
(c) 
 
Measured at fair value through profit or loss (F
VT
PL):
  
Investment in financial asset other than equity instrument, not measured at either amortised cost or FVOCI is measured 
at FVTPL. Such financial assets are measured at fair value with all changes in fair value, including interest income and 

dividend income if any, recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
 
E
quity Instruments:
 
All investments in equity instruments classified under financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value. Equity instruments 

which are held for trading are measured at FVTPL.
 
For all other equity instruments, the Company may, on initial recognition, irrevocably elect to measure the same either at 

FVOCI or FVTPL. The Company makes such election on an instrument-by-instrument basis. Fair value changes on an equity 
instrument shall be recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss unless the Company has elected to measure such instrument 
at FVOCI. Fair value changes excluding dividends, on an equity instrument measured at FVOCI are recognised in the OCI. 

Amounts recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) are not subsequently transferred to Statement of Profit and Loss. 
Dividend income on the investments in equity instruments are recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss.
 
Impairment
 
The Company recognises a loss allowance for Expected Credit Losses (ECL) on financial assets that are measured at amortised 

cost and at FVOCI. The credit loss is difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to an entity in accordance with 
the contract and all the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e. all cash shortfalls), discounted at the original 
effective 

interest rate. This is assessed on an individual or collective basis after considering all reasonable and supportable including that 
which is forward-looking.
 
The Company™s trade receivables or contract revenue receivables do not contain significant financing Branch and loss allowance 
on trade receivables is measured at an amount equal to life time expected losses i.e. expected cash shortfall, being simplified 
approach for recognition of impairment loss allowance.
 
Under simplified approach, the Company does not track changes in credit risk. Rather it recognizes impairment loss allowance 
based on the lifetime ECL at each reporting date right from its initial recognition. The Company uses a provision matrix to 

determine impairment loss allowance on the portfolio of trade receivables.
 
The provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life of the trade receivable and is 
adjusted for forward looking estimates. At every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are updated and changes 
in the forward-looking estimates are analysed.
Notes to the Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022
110
 
For financial assets other than trade receivables, the Company recognises 12-month expected credit losses for all originated 
or acquired financial assets if at the reporting date the credit risk of the financial asset has not increased significantly since its 
initial recognition. The expected credit losses are measured as lifetime expected credit losses if the credit risk on 
financial 
asset increases significantly since its initial recognition. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument improves 

such that there is no longer significant increase in credit risks since initial recognition, then the Company reverts to recognizing 
impairment loss allowance based on 12 months ECL.
 
Impairment loss allowance including ECL or reversal recognized during the period is recognized as income/ expense in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‚other expenses™ in the Statement of Profit and Loss. The 
impairment loss is presented as an allowance in the balance sheet as a reduction from the net carrying amount of the trade- 
receivable, loan, deposits and lease receivable respectively.
 
De-recognition
 
The Company derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or 

it transfers rights to receive cash flows from an asset, it evaluates if and to what extent it has retained the risks and rewards of 
ownership. When it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred 
control of the asset, the Company continues to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of the Company™s continuing 

involvement. In that case, the Company also recognises an associated liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability 
are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the Company has retained.
 
Financial Liabilities
 
Initial Recognition and measurement
 
Financial liabilities are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments. 
Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value net of transaction costs for all financial liabilities not carried at fair value 
through profit or loss.
 
The Company™s financial liabilities includes trade and other payables, loans and borrowings including bank overdrafts and 
derivative instruments.
 
Subsequent measurement
 
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are subsequently measured at using EIR method. Financial liabilities carried at 

fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value with all changes in fair value recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and 

Loss.
 
Loans & Borrowings
 
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using EIR method. 

Gains and losses are recognized in profit & loss when the liabilities are derecognized as well as through EIR amortization 
process. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are 
an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of profit or loss.
 
Financial Guarantee Contracts
 
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company are those contracts that requires a payment to be made or to reimburse 

the holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtors fails to make payment when due in accordance with the term of a 

debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are recognized initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction costs 
that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently the liability is measured at the higher of the amount 
of loss allowance determined as per impairment requirements of Ind AS 109 and the amount recognized less cumulative 

adjustments.
 
De-recognition
 
A financial liability is de-recognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an existing 

financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing l
iability 
are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the 
recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
 
Derivative financial instruments & hedge accounting
 
The Company uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge its foreign currency 
risks. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract 
is 
entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in Statement of Profit and 

Loss. Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair 
value is 
negative.
 
The Company designates their derivatives as hedges of foreign currency risk associated with the cash flows of highly probable 

forecast transactions and variable interest rate risks associated with the borrowings.
 
The Company documents at the inception of hedging transaction the economic relationship between hedging instruments 
and hedged items including whether the hedging instrument is expected to offset cash flow of hedged items. The Company 
documents its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transaction at the inception of each hedge 
relationship.
Notes to the Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022
111
 
Cash flows hedge that qualify for the hedge accounting
 
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken directly to statement of profit & loss, 
except for 
the effective portion of cash flow hedge which is recognized in other comprehensive income and presented as separate Branch 
of equity which is later reclassified to statement of profit & loss when the hedge item affects profit & loss.
 
Offsetting of financial instruments
 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are off-set, and the net amount is reported in the Balance Sheet if there is a currently 

enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets 
and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
1.11
 
FAIR 
V
AL
UE
 M
E
AS
U
R
E
M
E
N
T
 
The Company measures financial instruments, such as, derivatives at fair value at each balance sheet date.
 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 

market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to 
sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
 
-
 
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
 
- 
 
In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability
 
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Company.
 
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the 
asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
 
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant™s ability to generate economic 
benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
 
The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available 

to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
 
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within 
the fair 
value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a 
whole:
 
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
 
Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or 

indirectly observable
 
Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable
 
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether 
transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. For the purpose of fair value 
disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of 

the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
1.12
 E
MPLOY
EE
 B
E
N
E
FI
T
S
 
The Company has provides following post-employment plans such as:
 
(a) 
 
Defined benefit plans such a gratuity and
 
(b) 
 
Defined contribution plans such as Provident fund & Superannuation fund
 
a) 
 
Defined-benefit plan:
  
The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit gratuity plan is the present value of 

defined benefit obligations at the end of the reporting period less fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligations 

is calculated annually by actuaries through actuarial valuation using the projected unit credit method.
  
The Company recognises the following changes in the net defined benefit obligation as an expense in the statement of 
profit and loss:
  
(a) 
 
Service costs comprising current service costs, past-service costs, gains and losses on curtailment and non-routine 
settlements; and
  
(b) 
 
Net interest expense or income
  
Re-measurement comprising of actuarial gains and losses arising from:
  
(a) 
 
Re-measurement of Actuarial(gains)/losses
  
(b) 
 
Return on plan assets, excluding amount recognized in effect of asset ceiling
  
(c) 
 
Re-measurement arising because of change in effect of asset ceiling
Notes to the Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022
112
  
are recognised in the period in which they occur directly in Other comprehensive income. Re-measurement are not 
reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
  
Ind AS 19 requires the exercise of judgment in relation to various assumptions including future pay rises, inflation and 

discount rates and employee and pensioner demographics. The Company determines the assumptions in conjunction with 

its actuaries, and believes these assumptions to be in line with best practice, but the application of different assumptions 
could have a significant effect on the amounts reflected in the income statement, other comprehensive income and 
balance sheet. There may be also interdependency between some of the assumptions.
 
b) 
 
Defined-contribution plan:
  
Under defined contribution plans, provident fund, the Company pays pre-defined amounts to separate funds and does 

not have any legal or informal obligation to pay additional sums. Defined Contribution plan comprise of contributions to 
the employees™ provident fund with the government, superannuation fund and certain state plans like Employees™ State 
Insurance and Employees™ Pension Scheme. The Company™s payments to the defined contribution plans are recognised as 

expenses during the period in which the employees perform the services that the payment covers.
 
c) 
 
Other employee benefits:
  
(i) 
 
Compensated absences which are not expected to occur within twelve months after the end of the period in which 

the employee renders the related services are recognised as a liability at the present value of the obligation as at the 
Balance sheet date determined based on an actuarial valuation.
  
(ii) 
 
Undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expected to be paid in exchange for the services rendered by 
employees are recognised during the period when the employee renders the related services.
 
d) 
 
Expenses incurred towards voluntary retirement scheme are charged to the statement of profit and loss as and when 
incurred.
 
e) 
 
Other benefits comprising of discretionary long service awards are recognized as and when determined.
1.13
 
L
E
AS
E
S
 
As a Lessee:
 
The Company™s lease asset classes primarily consist of leases for land, buildings and vehicles. The Company assesses whether a 
contract contains a lease, at inception of a contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control 

the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
 
To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Company assesses whether:
 
(i) 
 
the contract involves the use of an identified asset;
 
(ii) 
 
the Company has substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the asset through the period of the lease; and
 
(iii) 
 
the Company has the right to direct the use of the asset.
 
At the date of commencement of the lease, the Company recognizes a right-of-use asset (ﬁROUﬂ) and a corresponding lease 
liability for all lease arrangements in which it is a lessee, except for leases with a term of twelve months or less (short-term leases) 
and low value leases. For these short-term and low value leases, the Company recognizes the lease payments as an operating 

expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
 
The right-of-use assets are initially recognized at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any 

lease payments made at or prior to the commencement date of the lease plus any initial direct costs less any lease incentives. 
They are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
 
Certain lease arrangements includes the options to extend or terminate the lease before the end of the lease term. ROU assets 
and lease liabilities includes these options when it is reasonably certain that they will be exercised.
 
Right-of-use assets are depreciated from the commencement date on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term 

and useful life of the underlying asset. Right of use assets are evaluated for recoverability whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. For the purpose of impairment testing, the 
recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset 

basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the 
recoverable amount is determined for the Cash Generating Unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
 
The lease liability is initially measured at amortized cost at the present value of the future lease payments. The lease payments 
are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily determinable, using the incremental borrowing rates 

in the country of domicile of these leases. Lease liabilities are remeasured with a corresponding adjustment to the related right 
of use asset if the Company changes its assessment if whether it will exercise an extension or a termination option.
 
Lease liability and ROU asset have been separately presented in the Balance Sheet and lease payments have been classified as 
financing cash flows.
 
As a Lessor:
 
Lease income from operating leases where the Company is a lessor is recognised in income on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term unless the receipts are structured to increase in line with expected general inflation to compensate for the expected 
inflationary cost increases. The respective leased assets are included in the balance sheet based on their nature.
Notes to the Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022
113
1.14
 
FOR
E
IGN C
U
RR
E
NCY 
T
RANSAC
T
IONS
 
a) 
 
Functional and Presentation currency
  
The Financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (INR), which is Company™s functional and presentation currency.
 
b) 
 
Initial Recognition
  
Transactions in foreign currency are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction. Exchange 
differences arising on foreign exchange transactions settled during the year are recognized in the Statement of Profit and 

Loss of the year.
 
c) 
 
Measurement of Foreign Currency Items at the Balance Sheet Date
  
Foreign currency monetary items of the Company are restated at the closing exchange rates. Non monetary items are 
recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction. Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value 
in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined. The gain or 

loss arising on translation of non- monetary items measured at fair value is treated in line with the recognition of the gain 
or loss on the change in the fair value of the item. Exchange differences arising out of these transactions are charged to the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
1.15
 
 
T
A
XE
S ON INCOM
E
 
The income tax expense or credit for the period is the tax payable on the current period™s taxable income based on the 

applicable income tax rate adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary differences and 
to unused tax losses, if any.
 
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax expense is recognized in the statement of profit and loss except to 
the extent it relates to items directly recognized in equity or in other comprehensive income. In this case, the tax expense 
is 

also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, as the case may be.
 
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit is different from accounting profit due to temporary differences 
between accounting and tax treatments, and due to items, that are never taxable or tax deductible. Current tax is measured at 
the amount expected to be paid to the tax authorities in accordance with the taxation laws prevailing and applicable for the 

relevant assessment year.
 
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of 
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates 
(and laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when 

the related deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
 
The Company offsets, the tax assets and liabilities (on a year on year basis) where it has a legally enforceable right and where it 

intends to settle such assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise the assets and liabilities on net basis.
 
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no lo
nger 

probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilized.
 Deferred 
income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset is realized 
or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting
 date.
1.16
 
R
E
S
E
ARCH AND D
EVE
LOPM
E
N
T
 
EX
P
E
NDI
TU
R
E
 
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Product development costs are expensed as incurred unless technical and commercial 

feasibility of the project is demonstrated, further economic benefits are probable, the Company has an intention and ability to 
complete and use or sell the product and the costs can be measured reliably.
1.17
 
PRO
V
ISIONS AND CON
T
ING
E
NCI
E
S
 
A provision is recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past event; it is probable that an 
outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and in respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. These 
are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.
 
A disclosure for a contingent liability is made where there is a possible obligation arising out of past event, the existence of 
which will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within 
the control of the Company or a present obligation arising out of past event where it is either not probable that an outflow of 
resources will be required to settle or a reliable estimate of the amount cannot be made.
 
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognized when the expected benefits to be derived by the Company from a contract are 
lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting the future obligations under the contract.
 
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time 

is recognised as a finance cost.
1.18
 
CASH AND CASH 
EQU
I
V
AL
E
N
T
S
 
Cash and Cash equivalents include cash and Cheque in hand, bank balances, demand deposits with banks and other short-

term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash & which are subject to an insignificant risk 
of changes in value where original maturity is three months or less.
Notes to the Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022
114
1.19
 
CASH FLOW S
T
A
TE
M
E
N
T
 
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method where by the profit before tax is adjusted for the effect of the 
transactions 
of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or accruals of past and future operating cash receipts or payments and items of income or 
expenses associated with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities of 
the company are segregated.
1.20
 
BORROWING COS
T
 
General and specific borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of 
qualifying 

assets are capitalized as a part of Cost of that assets, during the period till all the activities necessary to prepare the Qualifying 
assets for its intended use or sale are complete during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the assets 
for its intended use or sale. Qualifying assets are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their 

intended use or sale.
 
Other borrowing costs are recognized as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
1.21
 E
ARNINGS P
E
R SHAR
E
 
Basic EPS is arrived at based on net profit after tax available to equity shareholders to the weighted average number of 
equity 

shares outstanding during the year. The diluted EPS is calculated on the same basis as basic EPS, after adjusting for the effects 
of potential dilutive equity shares unless impact is anti-dilutive.
1.22
 
S
E
GM
E
N
T
 R
E
POR
T
ING
 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to Chief Operating Decision 
Maker (CODM).
 
The Company has identified its Managing Director as CODM who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing 

performance of the operating segments and makes strategic decisions.
1.23
 EX
C
E
P
T
IONAL I
TE
MS
 
When an item of income or expense within profit or loss from ordinary activity is of such size, nature or incidence that their 

disclosure is relevant to explain the performance of the Company for the year, the nature and amount of such items is disclosed 
as exceptional items.
1.24
 
CASH DI
V
ID
E
ND
 
The Company recognizes a liability to pay dividend when the distribution is authorised and the distribution is no longer at the 
discretion of the Company i.e. when the dividend distribution is being approved by the shareholders. A corresponding amount 
is recognized directly in equity.
1.25
 
R
E
C
E
N
T
 INDIAN ACCO
U
N
T
ING S
T
ANDARDS (IND AS)
 
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (ﬁMCAﬂ) notifies new standards / amendments under Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules as issued from time to time. On 23
rd
 March, 2022, MCA amended the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Amendment Rules, 2022, as below :
 
(a)
 
Ind AS 16 Œ Property, plant and equipment Œ The amendment clarifies that excess of net sale proceeds of items produced 

over the cost of testing, if any, shall not be recognised in the profit or loss but deducted from the directly attributable costs 

considered as part of cost of an item of property, plant, and equipment. The effective date for adoption of this amendment 
is annual periods beginning on or after 1
st
 April, 2022.
 
(b)
 
Ind AS 37 - Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets Œ The amendment specifies that the ‚cost of fulfilling™ 
a contract comprises the ‚costs that relate directly to the contract™. Costs that relate directly to a contract can either be 

incremental costs of fulfilling that contract (examples would be direct labour, materials) or an allocation of other costs that 
relate directly to fulfilling contracts (an example would be the allocation of the depreciation charge for an item of property, 
plant and equipment used in fulfilling the contract). The effective date for adoption of this amendment is annual periods 

beginning on or after 1
st
 April, 2022, although early adoption is permitted.
 
(c)
 
Ind AS 103 Œ Business combinations Œ The amendment adds a new exception in Ind AS 103 for liabilities and contingent 
liabilities.
 
 
(d)
 
Ind AS 109 Œ Financial instruments Œ The amendment clarifies which fees an entity includes when it applies the ‚10%™ test 

in assessing whether to derecognise a financial liability. An entity includes only fees paid or received between the entity 
(the borrower) and the lender, including fees paid or received by either the entity or the lender on the other™s behalf.
 
The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact of these amendments.
Notes to the Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022
115
2
 
PROP
E
R
T
Y, PLAN
T
 AND 
EQU
IPM
E
N
T
 Freehold 
Land 
Buildings 
 Plant and 
E
quipment 
 Moulds 
and Dies 
 Furniture 
and 
Fixtures 
 
V
ehicles 
 Office 
E
quipment 
 
T
otal 
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2021
75.70
763.15
1815.47
507.24
37.20
5.19
41.53
3245.48
Additions
0.35
56.41
152.56
42.16
1.59
0.24
4.88
258.19
Deductions/ Adjustment
-
0.72
10.53
1.28
0.02
0.67
2.25
15.47
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
76.05
818.84
1957.50
548.12
38.77
4.76
44.16
3488.20
Accumulated Depreciation
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2021
 - 
204.38
979.33
365.82
23.56
3.51
32.72
1609.32
Additions
 - 
26.67
132.76
43.25
2.40
0.84
5.41
211.33
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
0.27
10.18
1.18
0.01
0.67
2.25
14.56
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
-
230.78
1101.91
407.89
25.95
3.68
35.88
1806.09
Net carrying amount as at 1
st
 April, 2021
75.70
558.77
836.14
141.42
13.64
1.68
8.81
1636.16
Net carrying amount as at 31
st
 March, 2022
76.05
588.06
855.59
140.23
12.82
1.08
8.28
1682.11
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
69.28
691.08
1667.77
448.67
35.99
5.84
42.31
2960.94
Additions
6.42
73.00
155.25
58.74
1.78
0.41
4.01
299.61
Deductions/ Adjustment
-
0.93
7.55
0.17
0.57
1.06
4.79
15.07
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
75.70
763.15
1815.47
507.24
37.20
5.19
41.53
3245.48
Accumulated Depreciation
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
 - 
 179.71 
 864.78 
 326.12 
 21.81 
 4.14 
 31.24 
1427.80
Additions
 - 
 25.17 
 121.35 
 39.80 
 2.29 
 0.40 
 5.84 
194.85
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
 0.50 
 6.80 
 0.10 
 0.54 
 1.03 
 4.36 
13.33
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
 - 
 204.38 
 979.33 
 365.82 
 23.56 
 3.51 
 32.72 
1609.32
Net carrying amount as at 1
st
 April, 2020
69.28
511.37
802.99
122.55
14.18
1.70
11.07
1533.14
Net carrying amount as at 31
st
 March, 2021
75.70
558.77
836.14
141.42
13.64
1.68
8.81
1636.16
 
NO
TE
S
 
1. 
 
Leasehold land under varying lease arrangement for period ranging from 30-99 years.
 
2. 
 
Title deeds of Immovable Properties not held in name of the Company are:
Balances 
As at
Relevant 
line item in 
the Balance 
sheet
Description 
of item of 
property 
 Gross 
carrying 
value 
 
T
itle deeds 
held in the 
name of 
Whether title 
deed holder 
is promoter 
or director 
 Property 
held since 
which date 
 Reason for not being held in 
the name of the company 
31
st
 
March, 
2022
Property, 
plant & 
equipment
Free Hold 
Land 
 0.05 
Shivratan Jitmal 

Taparia 
 Executive 

Direcror 
27
th 
March, 
1987
The Company has obtained 

deed of declaration from 
the directors, mentioning 
they have no right on these 

properties.
Further due to some 
procedural/technical issue 

the properties are still not 
transferred in the name of the 
company.
31
st
 
March, 
2022
Property, 
plant & 
equipment
Free Hold 
Land 
 0.38 
 Mahavir Prasad 

Taparia 
 Managing 

Director 
17
th
 
December, 
2004
116
3
 
CAPI
T
AL WORK-IN-PROGR
E
SS
 As at 
 
31
st
 March, 2022 
 As at 
 
31
st
 March, 2021
Buildings
38.48
14.83
Plant and equipment
99.88
20.73
Moulds & dies
9.39
8.35
Other assets
0.23
0.02
Project expenses pending capitalisation (include depreciation and amortisation of 
r
 
0.01 Crores (Previous year 
r
 0.70 Crores))
6.61
5.69
T
O
T
AL CAPI
T
AL WORK-IN-PROGR
E
SS
154.59
49.62
CAPI
T
AL WORK-IN-PROGR
E
SS AG
E
ING SCH
E
D
U
L
E
 Particulars 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
2-3 years
More than 3 years
T
otal
As at 31
st
 March, 2022 
Projects in progress
 145.03 
 9.56 
 - 
 - 
 154.59 
Projects temporarily suspended 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
T
otal 
 145.03 
 9.56 
 - 
 - 
 154.59 
As at 31
st
 March, 2021 
Projects in progress
 49.62 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 49.62 
Projects temporarily suspended 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
T
otal 
 49.62 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 49.62 
4
 
IN
T
ANGIBL
E
 ASS
ET
S
 Computer software 
 Know how,
 
Right to use & Patents 
 
T
otal 
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2021
18.33
25.76
44.09
Additions
0.56
 - 
0.56
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
18.89
25.76
44.65
Accumulated Depreciation
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2021
12.44
20.69
33.13
Additions
2.92
2.16
5.08
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
 - 
-
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
15.36
22.85
38.21
Net carrying amount as at 1
st
 April, 2021
5.89
5.07
10.96
Net carrying amount as at 31
st
 March, 2022
3.53
2.91
6.44
Gross carrying amount

Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
18.24
25.69
43.93
Additions
0.09
0.07
0.16
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
18.33
25.76
44.09
Accumulated Depreciation

Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
9.52
18.39
27.91
Additions
2.92
2.19
5.11
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
-0.11
-0.11
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
12.44
20.69
33.13
Net carrying amount as at 1
st
 April, 2020
8.72
7.30
16.02
Net carrying amount as at 31
st
 March, 2021
5.89
5.07
10.96
117
4A
 
 IN
T
ANGIBL
E
 ASS
ET
S 
U
ND
E
R D
EVE
LOPM
E
N
T
 As at 
 
31
st
 March, 2022 
 As at 
 
31
st
 March, 2021
Computer software / licences
 - 
0.22
Know how, Right to use & Patents
1.18
1.18
T
O
T
AL IN
T
ANGIBL
E
 ASS
ET
S 
U
ND
E
R D
EVE
LOPM
E
N
T
1.18
1.40
IN
T
ANGIBL
E
 ASS
ET
S 
U
ND
E
R D
EVE
LOPM
E
N
T
 SCH
E
D
U
L
E
 Particulars 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
2-3 years
More than 3 years
T
otal
As at 31
st
 March, 2022 
Projects in progress
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.18 
 1.18 
Projects temporarily suspended 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
T
otal 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.18 
 1.18 
As at 31
st
 March, 2021 
Projects in progress
0.22
 - 
 - 
1.18
 1.40 
Projects temporarily suspended 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
T
otal 
0.22 
 - 
 - 
1.18
 1.40 
5
 
RIGH
T
 
T
O 
U
S
E
 - L
E
AS
E
 Right to use 
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2021
92.61
Additions
25.08
Deductions/ Adjustment
-
Amortisation
0.39
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
117.30
Accumulated Depreciation

Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2021
25.45
Additions
13.12
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
38.57
Net carrying amount as at 1
st
 April, 2021
67.16
Net carrying amount as at 31
st
 March, 2022
78.73
Gross carrying amount

Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
 71.21 
Additions
 21.64 
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
Amortisation
 0.24 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
 92.61 
Accumulated Depreciation

Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
12.63
Additions
12.82
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
25.45
Net carrying amount as at 1
st
 April, 2020
58.58
Net carrying amount as at 31
st
 March, 2021
67.16
(Refer Note 36) 
118
6
 
NON C
U
RR
E
N
T
 IN
VE
S
T
M
E
N
T
S
Q
uantity (in Nos)
Amount
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
 EQU
I
T
Y SHAR
E
S F
U
LLY PAID 
U
P
 
A. 
 
IN
VE
S
T
M
E
N
T
 IN ASSOCIA
TE
 & S
U
BSIDIARY
QU
O
TE
D (At Cost)
Supreme Petrochem Ltd. (an associate Company - 30.78% 
equity stake held [Previous year 30.78%]) [Face value @ 
r
 4 
each (Previous year @ 
r
 10 each)]
28936400
28936400
16.01
33.37
Pursuant to NCLT order dated 10
th
 March, 2022, The 
associates has reduced its face value of shares from 
R
 10 
each to 
R
 4 each. Amount Receivable 
R
 17.36 crores (Refer 
Note 9) has since been received.
U
N
QU
O
TE
D (At Cost)
Supreme Industries Overseas (FZE), a wholly owned 
subsidiary incorporated in UAE (Face value @ AED 150,000 
each)
1
1
0.19
0.19
T
O
T
AL IN
VE
S
T
M
E
N
T
 IN ASSOCIA
TE
 & S
U
BSIDIARY
16.20
33.56
 
B.
 
O
T
H
E
R IN
VE
S
T
M
E
N
T
S
QU
O
TE
D (Fair value through Profit & Loss Account)
Bank of Baroda
1286
1286
 0.01 
 0.01 
Central Bank of India
5874
5874
 0.01 
 0.01 
Unimers India Ltd.
37
37
 - 
 - 
U
N
QU
O
TE
D (Fair value through Profit & Loss Account)
Saraswat Co-op. Bank Ltd.
1000
1000
 - 
 - 
Windage Power Company Private Ltd.*
54550
73450
 0.05 
 0.07 
Nu Power Wind Farms Limited*
10378
4769
 0.01 
 - 
IN
VE
S
T
M
E
N
T
 IN PAR
T
N
E
RSHIP
HPC Research s.r.o. (LLC)**
 5.59 
 5.31 
T
O
T
AL O
T
H
E
R IN
VE
S
T
M
E
N
T
S
5.67
5.40
T
O
T
AL NON C
U
RR
E
N
T
 IN
VE
S
T
M
E
N
T
S [A+B]
21.87
38.96
*Lying in escrow account
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
2675.63
1210.28
Aggregate carrying value of unquoted investments
5.84
5.57
Aggregate carrying value of quoted investments
16.03
33.39
** Name of Partners and shares
1. Special engineering s.r.o. (45%)
2. Andriy Zakharchuk (45%)

3. The Supreme Industries Limited (10%)
7
 
D
E
POSI
T
S
Non-Current
Current
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
 
Sundry deposits considered good - Unsecured
 22.41 
 20.19 
 1.86 
 4.84 
 
Sundry Deposits - credit impaired
 - 
 0.05 
 - 
 - 
 22.41 
 20.24 
 1.86 
 4.84 
 
Less: Provision for doubtful Sundry Deposits
 - 
 0.05 
 - 
 - 
 T
O
T
AL D
E
POSI
T
S
 22.41 
 20.19 
 1.86 
 4.84 
119
8
 
LOANS
Non-Current
Current
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
 
Loans to employees considered good - Unsecured
 1.17 
 1.08 
 4.04 
 1.65 
 
Loans to employees - credit impaired
 0.04 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 1.21 
 1.12 
 4.04 
 1.65 
 
Less: Provision for doubtful Loans to employees
 0.04 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 T
O
T
AL LOANS
 1.17 
 1.08 
 4.04 
 1.65 
9
 
O
T
H
E
R FINANCIAL ASS
ET
S
Non-Current
Current
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
 
Interest accrued and due on fixed deposits
 - 
 - 
0.35 
0.54 
 
Share application money towards 682927 equits shares of 
 
 
Belenus Solar Pvt Ltd. - Since allotted
 
 - 
 - 
1.12 
 - 
 
Amount receivable from Associate towards its capital 
 
 
reduction-Since received (Refer Note 6)
 - 
 - 
17.36 
 - 
 T
O
T
AL O
T
H
E
R FINANCIAL ASS
ET
S
 - 
 - 
18.83 
0.54 
10
 
O
T
H
E
R ASS
ET
S
 
(Unsecured - Considered good)
Non-Current
Current
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
 
Capital advances
42.12 
19.02 
 - 
 - 
 
Advance to Suppliers
 - 
 - 
54.80 
43.62 
 
Advances/claims recoverable
 - 
0.37 
22.18 
21.30 
 
Prepaid expenses
1.31 
1.17 
11.31 
10.52 
 
Refunds due/balances from/with government authorities
54.62 
72.58 
93.38 
64.30 
 T
O
T
AL O
T
H
E
R ASS
ET
S
98.05 
93.14 
181.67 
139.74 
11
 
IN
VE
N
T
ORI
E
S
 
(Cost or Net realisable value whichever is lower)
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
 
Raw materials and components [including goods in transit 
r
 70.13 crores (As at 31
st
 March™ 
2021 - 
r
 27.77 crores)]
632.44 
345.37 
 
Finished goods [(including goods in transit 
r
 5.53 crores (As at 31
st
 March™ 2021 - 
r
 0.08 
crores)]
511.50 
319.60 
 
Semi-finished goods
74.34 
54.00 
 
Stock-in-trade
6.52 
6.49 
 
Stores, spare parts, and consumables
21.89 
21.31 
 
Packing materials
13.47 
13.99 
 T
O
T
AL IN
VE
N
T
ORI
E
S
1260.16 
760.76 
 
Note: Write down of Inventories to Net Realisable Value by 
r
 2.71 crores (Previous year 
 
r
 2.90 crores) based on management inventory policy for Non & slow moving inventory. The 
same has been recognised as an expense during the year and included in the ﬁChanges in 
value of Inventory of ﬁsemi finished goodsﬂand ﬁfinished goodsﬂ in the statement of Profit 

and Loss.
120
12
 T
RAD
E
 R
E
C
E
I
V
ABL
E
S
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
 
Trade Receivables considered good - Unsecured
465.63 
388.90 
 
Trade Receivables which have significant increase in Credit Risk
3.17 
3.54 
 
Trade Receivables - credit impaired
4.44 
4.42 
473.24 
396.86 
 
Less: Provision for doubtful trade receivables
6.48 
6.77 
 T
O
T
AL 
T
RAD
E
 R
E
C
E
I
V
ABL
E
S
466.76 
390.09 
 
Note: Refer Note 33 and 40
T
RAD
E
 R
E
C
E
I
V
ABL
E
S AG
E
ING SCH
E
D
U
L
E
:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date 
 
of payment
Not Due/
U
nbilled
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
T
otal
As at 31
st
 March, 2022
i) 
 
Undisputed Trade receivables Œ considered good
 375.76 
 84.11 
 4.08 
 0.42 
 0.26 
 0.23 
 464.86 
ii) 
 
Undisputed Trade Receivables Œ which have 
significant increase in credit Risk
 - 
 0.01 
 2.26 
 0.66 
 0.09 
 0.15 
 3.17 
iii)
 
Undisputed Trade Receivables Œ credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv) 
 
Disputed Trade receivables Œ considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.77 
 - 
 - 
 0.77 
v) 
 
Disputed Trade Receivables Œ which have 

significant increase in credit Risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
vi) 
 
Disputed Trade Receivables Œ credit impaired
 - 
0.17
0.60
1.20
 0.19 
 2.28 
 4.44 
Subtotal
 375.76 
84.29
6.94
3.05
 0.54 
 2.66 
 473.24 
Less: Provision for doubtful trade receivables
0.23
3.05
 0.54 
 2.66 
 6.48 
T
otal
 375.76 
84.29
6.71
 - 
 - 
 - 
 466.76 
As at 31
st
 March, 2021
i) 
 
Undisputed Trade receivables Œ considered good
 314.03 
 70.15 
 1.94 
 2.10 
 0.68 
 - 
 388.90 
ii) 
 
Undisputed Trade Receivables Œ which have 
significant increase in credit Risk
 1.21 
 - 
 1.53 
 0.58 
 0.16 
 0.06 
 3.54 
iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables Œ credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv) 
 
Disputed Trade receivables Œ considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
v) 
 
Disputed Trade Receivables Œ which have 
significant increase in credit Risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
vi) 
 
Disputed Trade Receivables Œ credit impaired
 - 
 0.14 
 0.42 
 1.39 
 0.05 
 2.42 
 4.42 
Subtotal
 315.24 
 70.29 
 3.89 
 4.07 
 0.89 
 2.48 
 396.86 
Less: Provision for doubtful trade receivables
 3.40 
 0.89 
 2.48 
 6.77 
T
otal
 315.24 
 70.29 
 3.89 
 0.67 
 -   
 -   
 390.09 
13
 
CASH AND CASH 
EQU
I
V
AL
E
N
T
S
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
 
Balance with banks in current and cash credit accounts
91.36 
94.67 
 
Cash on hand
0.20 
0.28 
 
Investment in liquid mutual funds/deposits*
426.15 
664.51 
 T
O
T
AL CASH AND CASH 
EQU
I
V
AL
E
N
T
S
517.71 
759.46 
 
*Investment in Liquid Mutual funds/deposits includes:
121
 
Scheme Name
U
nits (in Nos.)
 
as at
 
31-Mar-22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
 
A. 
 
Liquid Mutual funds
  
ABSL Liquid Fund-Direct
1314684 
45.11 
71.68 
  
ABSL Liquid Fund-Regular
441955 
15.05 
 - 
  
Axis Liquid Fund-Direct
254624 
60.19 
50.24 
  
BNP Paribas Liquid Fund-Direct
37066 
9.09 
39.03 
  
HDFC Liquid Fund-Direct
155688 
65.15 
63.69 
  
ICICI Pru Liquid Fund-Direct
1907014 
60.12 
35.08 
  
Kotak Liquid Fund-Direct
142019 
61.11 
48.57 
  
SBI Liquid Fund-Direct
120211 
40.07 
62.18 
  
SBI Liquid Fund-Regular
75833 
25.11 
 - 
  
Tata Liquid Fund-Direct
134357 
45.15 
56.53 
  
HDFC Liquid Fund-Regular
 - 
13.06 
  
HSBC Liquid Fund-Direct
 - 
20.14 
  
ICICI Pru Liquid Fund-Regular
 - 
10.02 
  
IDFC Liquid Fund-Direct
 - 
19.05 
  
LIC MF Liquid Fund-Direct
 - 
40.11 
  
Kotak Liquid Fund-Regular
 - 
10.01 
  
Nippon India Liquid Fund-Direct
 - 
75.08 
  
UTI Liquid Fund-Direct
 - 
25.04 
  T
otal [A]
426.15 
639.51 
 
B. 
 
Deposits
  
HDFC Ltd.
 - 
25.00 
  T
otal [B]
-
25.00 
  T
otal [A+B]
426.15 
664.51 
14
 
O
T
H
E
R BANK BALANC
E
S
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
Deposit with banks (Earmarked for electricity/sales tax/margin money)
2.12 
1.96
Unclaimed dividend
5.24 
4.92 
T
O
T
AL O
T
H
E
R BANK BALANC
E
S
7.36 
6.88 
15
 EQU
I
T
Y SHAR
E
 CAPI
T
AL
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
A
UT
HORIS
E
D
15,00,00,000 Nos. Equity Shares of 
r
 2 each
30.00
30.00
1,12,00,000 Nos. Preference Shares of 
r
 10 each
11.20
11.20
3,38,00,000 Nos. Unclassified Shares of 
r
 10 each
33.80
33.80
75.00
75.00
ISS
UE
D, S
U
BSCRIB
E
D AND PAID 
U
P
12,70,26,870 Nos. Equity Shares of 
r
 2 each Fully Paid Up
25.41
25.41
T
O
T
AL SHAR
E
 CAPI
T
AL
25.41
25.41
a)
T
he reconciliation of the number of equity shares 
outstanding
As at 31-Mar-22
As at 31-Mar-21
Numbers
Amount
Numbers
Amount
Equity Shares at the beginning of the year
127026870
25.41
127026870
25.41
Equity Shares at the end of the year
127026870
25.41
127026870
25.41
122
 
b)
 T
erms/rights attached to 
E
quity shares :
  
The Company has only one class of issued Equity Shares having a par value of 
r
 2 per share. Each Shareholder is eligible 
for one vote per share held.
  
In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are eligible to receive the residual assets of the Company after 

distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding.
 
c)
 T
he details of Shareholders holding more than 5% shares:
Name of the Shareholders
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
No. of 
E
quity 
Shares
% of Holding
No. of Equity 
Shares
% of Holding
Boon Investment and Trading Company Pvt Ltd
20457956
16.11%
20457956
16.11%
Jovial Investment and Trading Company Pvt Ltd
20478638
16.12%
20478638
16.12%
Venkatesh Investment and Trading Company Pvt Ltd
18041229
14.20%
18041229
14.20%
 
d)
 T
he details of Shares held by promoters at the end of the year
Promoter name
2021-22
2020-21
No. of 
E
quity 
Shares
E
quity 
Shares 
%
% Change 
during 
the year
No. of 
Equity 
Shares
Equity 
Shares 
%
% Change 
during the 
year
Boon Investment and Trading Company Pvt Ltd
20457956
16.11%
 - 
20457956
16.11%
 - 
Jovial Investment and Trading Company Pvt Ltd
20478638
16.12%
 - 
20478638
16.12%
 - 
Venkatesh Investment and Trading Company 
Pvt Ltd
18041229
14.20%
 - 
18041229
14.20%
 - 
Platinum Plastic And Industries Private Limited
49100
0.04%
 - 
49100
0.04%
 - 
Suraj Packaging Private Limited
6300
0.00%
 - 
6300
0.00%
 - 
Space Age Chemplast Pvt Ltd
30000
0.02%
 - 
30000
0.02%
 - 
Mahaveer Prasad Taparia
749186
0.59%
 - 
749186
0.59%
 - 
Shri Bajranglal Taparia
317398
0.25%
 - 
317398
0.25%
 - 
Shivratan Taparia
703816
0.55%
 - 
703816
0.55%
 - 
Vijay Kumar Taparia
244890
0.19%
 - 
244890
0.19%
 - 
Kamleshdevi Taparia
302830
0.24%
 - 
302830
0.24%
 - 
Kusumdevi Taparia
98690
0.08%
 - 
98690
0.08%
 - 
Vivek Kumar Taparia
162230
0.13%
 - 
162230
0.13%
 - 
Priyanka Devi Taparia
141500
0.11%
 - 
141500
0.11%
 - 
Anika Vivekkumar Taparia
20000
0.02%
 - 
20000
0.02%
 - 
Viren Vivek Taparia
200050
0.16%
 - 
200050
0.16%
 - 
Akshay Vivekkumar Taparia
50000
0.04%
 - 
50000
0.04%
 - 
T
otal
62053813
48.85%
 - 
62053813
48.85%
 - 
 
e) 
 
In the Period of five years immediately preceding March, 2022:
  
The Company has not alloted any equity shares as fully paid up without payment being received in cash or as Bonus Shares 
or Bought back any equity shares.
16
 
O
T
H
E
R 
EQU
I
T
Y
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
Capital reserve
2.45 
2.45 
Securities premium
47.49 
47.49 
Capital redemption reserve
2.22 
2.22 
General reserve
3094.73 
2587.71 
Retained earnings
228.65 
215.96 
Accumulated other comprehensive income
(13.01)
(12.07)
3362.53 
2843.76 
123
 
Nature & Purpose of the Reserve:
 
Capital reserve:
 Capital reserve represents the capital subsidy received by the Company. The reserve will be utilised in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act.
 
Securities premium: 
Securities premium is credited when shares are issued at premium. This will be 
 
utilised in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act.
 
Capital redemption reserve:
 Capital redemption reserve is being created by transfer from Retained earnings 
 
at the time of 
buy back of equity shares in accordance with the Act. The reserve will be utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
 
General reserve:
 The General reserve is created by way of transfer of profits from retained earnings for appropriation purposes. 
This reserve is utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
 
Retained earnings:
 Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date, less any transfers to general 
reserve, dividends or other distributions paid to shareholders.
17
 
BORROWINGS
Non-Current
Current
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
 U
NS
E
C
U
R
E
D
 
Deferred payment liabilities (under sales tax deferral 
 
 
scheme)
 - 
0.61 
 - 
 0.35 
 T
O
T
AL BORROWINGS
 - 
0.61 
 - 
 0.35 
 
(Refer Note 33, 34 and 44)
18
 
D
E
POSI
T
S
Non-Current
Current
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
 
Trade / security deposits
4.03 
4.30 
1.68 
0.87 
 T
O
T
AL D
E
POSI
T
S
4.03 
4.30 
1.68 
0.87 
19
 
PRO
V
ISIONS
Non-Current
Current
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
 
Provision for employee benefits:
 
Compensated absences
24.39 
22.42 
7.60 
6.79 
 
Gratuity (Refer Note 35)
 - 
 - 
 - 
0.62 
 T
O
T
AL PRO
V
ISIONS
24.39 
22.42 
7.60 
7.41 
20
 T
RAD
E
 PAYABL
E
S
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
Due to:
Micro, small and medium enterprises
22.15 
12.32 
Creditors other than micro, small and medium enterprises
772.94 
634.40 
T
O
T
AL 
T
RAD
E
 PAYABL
E
S
795.09 
646.72
 
Note:
 
1. 
 
Refer Note 40 for related party balances.
 
2. 
 
The Company has certain dues to suppliers registered under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 
(‚MSMED Act™). The disclosure pursuant to the said MSMED Act, to the extent information available to the Company are 
as follows:
124
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
Principal amount due to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act and remaining 
unpaid as at year end
22.15
12.32
Interest due to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act and remaining unpaid as at 

year end
 - 
 - 
Principal amounts paid to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act, beyond the 

appointed day during the year
 - 
 - 
Interest paid, other than under Section 16 of MSMED Act, to suppliers registered under 

the MSMED Act, beyond the appointed day during the year
 - 
 - 
Interest paid, under Section 16 of MSMED Act, to suppliers registered under the MSMED 
Act, beyond the appointed day during the year
 - 
 - 
Interest due and payable towards suppliers registered under MSMED Act, for payments 
already made
 - 
 - 
Further interest remaining due and payable for earlier years
 - 
 - 
 
3. 
 T
rade Payables Ageing Schedule:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods 
from due date of payment
Not Due/
U
nbilled
Less than 
1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
T
otal
As at 31
st
 March, 2022
i) 
 
Micro, small and medium enterprises
 17.07 
 5.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 22.15 
ii) 
 
Creditors other than micro, small and medium enterprises
 278.60 
 486.54 
 2.55 
 3.13 
 2.12 
 772.94 
iii) 
 
Disputed dues Œ Micro, small and medium enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv)
 
Disputed dues other than micro, small and medium 

enterprises
 - 
 - 
 0.80 
 0.63 
 2.12 
 3.55 
As at 31
st
 March, 2021
i) 
 
Micro, small and medium enterprises
 10.31 
 1.86 
 0.15 
 - 
 - 
 12.32 
ii) 
 
Creditors other than micro, small and medium enterprises
 238.65 
 389.23 
 3.65 
 0.49 
 2.38 
 634.40 
iii) 
 
Disputed dues Œ Micro, small and medium enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv)
 
Disputed dues other than micro, small and medium 

enterprises
 - 
 - 
 1.30 
 0.49 
 2.38 
 4.17 
21
 
O
T
H
E
R FINANCIAL LIABILI
T
I
E
S
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
Payables towards property, plant & equipment
 41.40 
 121.37 
Unclaimed dividend*
 5.24 
 4.91 
Unpaid matured deposits & interest accrued thereon
 0.01 
 0.01 
Derivative financial liabilities
 2.49 
 0.26 
Others
 - 
 1.02 
T
O
T
AL O
T
H
E
R FINANCIALS LIABILI
T
I
E
S
 49.14 
 127.57 
 
*Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) credited when due. As at March 31
st
 2022, no balances were due to be 
transferred to IEPF.
22
 
O
T
H
E
R C
U
RR
E
N
T
 LIABILI
T
I
E
S
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
Advances from customers
43.49 
80.71 
Statutory dues
89.01 
85.28 
Other payables
1.87 
2.08 
T
O
T
AL O
T
H
E
R C
U
RR
E
N
T
 LIABILI
T
I
E
S
134.37 
168.07 
125
23
 
INCOM
E
 
T
A
X
 ASS
ET
S/LIABILI
T
I
E
S (N
ET
)
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
Income tax liabilities (net of advance tax paid 
r
 288.57 Crores)
 - 
 6.53 
T
O
T
AL INCOM
E
 
T
A
X
 LIABILI
T
I
E
S (N
ET
)
 - 
 6.53 
Income tax assets (net of income tax provision 
r
 264.81 Crores)
 15.42 
 - 
T
O
T
AL INCOM
E
 
T
A
X
 ASS
ET
S (N
ET
)
 15.42 
 - 
24
 
R
EVE
N
UE
 FROM OP
E
RA
T
IONS
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Sale of Goods
 
Plastic Products
7569.34 
6132.65 
T
raded Goods
 
Plastic Products
47.37 
32.84 
 
Polymers & Others
105.89 
125.23 
7722.60 
6290.72 
Sale of services

 
Income from processing
8.53 
9.47 
 
Others
 - 
0.32 
8.53 
9.79 
Other operating income

 
Government grants/subsidy (Refer Note 42)
10.32 
32.05 
 
Export incentives
5.12 
4.49 
 
Sale of empty bags and other scrap etc.
17.59 
10.37 
 
Insurance and other claims
0.35 
0.22 
 
Liabilities no longer required written back
8.30 
7.49 
41.68 
54.62 
T
O
T
AL R
EVE
N
UE
 FROM OP
E
RA
T
IONS
7772.81 
6355.13 
25
 
O
T
H
E
R INCOM
E
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Dividend received on investments in associate carried at cost
47.75 
11.57 
Profit on sale/discard of property, plant and equipment (net)
2.98 
3.85 
Lease rent
0.05 
0.31 
Share of profit in partnership firm
0.28 
0.10 
Fair value gain on investments through profit or loss
0.01 
0.01 
Profit on sale of non current investments
5.40 
 - 
Interest received
1.36 
2.80 
Unwinding of discount on security deposits
0.50 
0.45 
Fair valuation of liquid mutual funds on current investments designated at FVTPL
0.90 
1.38 
Profit on redemption of liquid mutual funds on current investments designated at FVTPL
8.47 
7.99 
T
O
T
AL O
T
H
E
R INCOM
E
67.70 
28.46 
126
26
 
COS
T
 OF MA
TE
RIALS CONS
U
M
E
D
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Cost of raw materials consumed
5301.22 
3662.81 
Cost of packing materials consumed
127.71 
100.73 
T
O
T
AL COS
T
 OF MA
TE
RIALS
5428.93 
3763.54 
27
 
CHANG
E
S IN IN
VE
N
T
ORI
E
S OF FINISH
E
D GOODS, S
E
MI FINISH
E
D GOODS & S
T
OCK-IN-
T
RAD
E
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Inventories at the beginning of the year
Finished goods / Semi finished goods
373.60 
522.54 
Stock-in-trade
6.49 
8.08 
380.09 
530.62 
Inventories at the end of the year

Finished goods / Semi finished goods
585.84 
373.60 
Stock-in-trade
6.52 
6.49 
592.36 
380.09 
Change in inventories
(212.27)
150.53 
T
O
T
AL CHANG
E
S IN IN
VE
N
T
ORI
E
S OF FINISH
E
D 
GOODS, S
E
MI FINISH
E
D GOODS & S
T
OCK-IN-
T
RAD
E
(212.27)
150.53 
28
 E
MPLOY
EE
 B
E
N
E
FI
T
S 
EX
P
E
NS
E
S
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Salaries and wages
265.38 
238.19 
Contribution to provident and other funds
13.50 
11.48 
Managerial remuneration
46.25 
43.73 
Staff welfare expenses
19.17 
15.95 
T
O
T
AL 
E
MPLOY
EE
 B
E
N
E
FI
T
S 
EX
P
E
NS
E
S
344.30 
309.35 
29
 
FINANC
E
 COS
T
S
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Interest expenses on borrowings
 - 
14.81 
Interest on lease liabilities
3.76 
3.68 
Unwinding of discount on deferred sales tax
0.09 
0.08 
Other borrowing costs
1.00 
1.16 
Interest on income tax (Previous year net of interest on income tax refund of 
r
 1.96 Crores)
0.30 
2.32 
T
O
T
AL FINANC
E
 COS
T
S
5.15 
22.05 
127
30
 
O
T
H
E
R 
EX
P
E
NS
E
S
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Stores & spare parts consumed
45.87 
41.92 
Labour charges
194.33 
169.72 
Power & fuel
213.43 
198.57 
Water charges
1.07 
1.13 
Repairs & maintenance of buildings
7.52 
2.96 
Repairs & maintenance of plant & machinery
14.48 
13.80 
Repairs & maintenance (others)
15.14 
11.57 
Directors™ Fees and Commission to non executive directors (Refer Note 40)
1.30 
1.33 
Rent, rates & taxes (Refer Note 36)
4.99 
4.78 
Insurance
8.19 
8.27 
Corporate social responsibility and donations (Refer Note 46)
15.87 
12.10 
Legal & professional fees
19.49 
14.21 
Travelling & conveyance 
26.61 
17.60 
Vehicle expenses (Refer Note 36)
3.52 
2.34 
Advertisement, publicity & business promotion
62.84 
55.06 
Freight and forwarding charges
129.32 
110.98 
Printing, stationery & communication
8.56 
7.20 
Commission
20.51 
18.37 
Bad debts (net of bad debts recovered)
0.04 
0.60 
Provision for doubtful debts
 - 
0.86 
Plant security services
14.33 
13.14 
Inspection, testing, registration and marking fees
7.63 
6.84 
Foreign currency exchange fluctuation (net)
14.01 
1.78 
Miscellaneous expenses
4.11 
3.71 
T
O
T
AL O
T
H
E
R 
EX
P
E
NS
E
S
833.16 
718.84 
31
 
 INCOM
E
 
T
A
XE
S
 
a) 
 T
ax expense recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss:
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Current tax
264.50 
274.28 
Deferred income tax expense/(credit)
(1.48)
1.81 
T
otal income tax expense/(credit)
263.02 
276.09 
 
b) 
 
A reconciliation of the income tax amount between the enacted income tax rate and the effective income 
tax of the Company is as follows :
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Enacted income tax rate in India adopted by the Company
25.17%
25.17%
Profit before tax
1073.97 
1076.17 
Income tax as per above rate
270.32 
270.87 
Income tax adjustments on:
 
Income not chargeable to Income taxes
 (12.02)
(2.91)
 
Amounts not allowable under income tax act
 3.66 
4.21 
 
Others
 1.06 
3.92 
Income tax as per profit and loss statement
 263.02 
276.09 
128
 
c) 
 T
he movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022:
Deferred tax (assets)/liabilities
As at 1
st
 
April, 
2020
(Credit)/
charge in 
statement 
of Profit and 
Loss
As at 31
st
 
March, 
2021
(Credit)/
charge in 
statement 
of Profit and 
Loss
As at 31
st
 
March, 
2022
Depreciation
110.53 
(0.78)
109.75 
0.23 
109.98 
Amount allowable on payment basis & others
(20.42)
2.59 
(17.83)
(1.71)
(19.54)
T
otal
90.11 
1.81 
91.92 
(1.48)
90.44 
32
 
FINANCIAL INS
T
R
U
M
E
N
T
S
 
The Management assessed that cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade payables and other current liabilities 
approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short term maturities of these instruments. The fair value of the financial 
assets and financial liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction 
between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
 
The Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation 
technique:
 
Level 1: Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 
Level 2: Other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either 
directly or indirectly.
 
Level 3: Techniques which use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable 

market data.
 
T
he carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments by catergory are as follows:
 
a.
 
Financial assets
Instruments carried at
Note
At Cost
F
VT
PL
Amortized cost
T
otal carrying 
amount
As at 31
st
 March, 2022
Investment in associate and subsidiary
6
 16.20 
 - 
 - 
 16.20 
Other investments
6
 - 
 5.67 
 - 
 5.67 
Deposits
7
 - 
 - 
 24.27 
 24.27 
Loans
8
 - 
 - 
 5.21 
 5.21 
Trade receivables 
12
 - 
 - 
 466.76 
 466.76 
Cash & cash equivalents
13
 - 
 426.15 
 91.56 
 517.71 
Other bank balances
14
 - 
 - 
 7.36 
 7.36 
Other financial assets 
9
 - 
 - 
 18.83 
 18.83 
T
otal
 16.20 
 431.82 
 613.99 
 1,062.01 
As at 31
st
 March, 2021
Investment in associate and subsidiary
6
 33.56 
 - 
 - 
 33.56 
Other investments
6
 - 
 5.40 
 - 
 5.40 
Deposits
7
 - 
 - 
 25.03 
 25.03 
Loans
8
 - 
 - 
 2.73 
 2.73 
Trade receivables 
12
 - 
 - 
 390.09 
 390.09 
Cash & cash equivalents
13
 - 
 664.51 
 94.95 
 759.46 
Other bank balances
14
 - 
 - 
 6.88 
 6.88 
Other financial assets 
9
 - 
 - 
 0.54 
 0.54 
T
otal
 33.56 
 669.91 
 520.22 
 1,223.69 
129
 
b.
 
Financial liabilities
Instruments carried at
Note
F
VT
PL
Amortized cost
T
otal carrying 
amount
As at 31
st
 March, 2022
Borrowings
17
 - 
 - 
 - 
Finance lease liabilities
 - 
 45.68 
 45.68 
Deposits
18
 - 
 5.71 
 5.71 
Trade payables 
20
 - 
 795.09 
 795.09 
Other financial liabilities 
21
 - 
 46.65 
 46.65 
Derivative financial liabilities
21
 2.49 
 - 
 2.49 
T
otal
 2.49 
 893.13 
 895.62 
As at 31
st
 March, 2021
Borrowings
17
 - 
 0.96 
 0.96 
Finance lease liabilities
 - 
 36.71 
 36.71 
Deposits
18
 - 
 5.17 
 5.17 
Trade payables 
20
 - 
 646.72 
 646.72 
Other financial liabilities 
21
 - 
 127.31 
 127.31 
Derivative financial liabilities
21
 0.26 
 - 
 0.26 
T
otal
 0.26 
 816.87 
 817.13 
  
Fair value estimation
  
For financial instruments measured at fair value in the Balance Sheet, a three level fair value hierarchy is used that reflects 
the significance of inputs used in the measurements. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices 
in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 

3 measurements).
  
The categories used are as follows:







Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
As at 31
st
 March, 2022
Assets at fair value
Investments
 0.06 
 - 
5.61
Investment in liquid funds
 426.15 
 - 
 - 
Liabilities at fair value

Derivative financial instruments
 - 
 2.49 
 - 
As at 31
st
 March, 2021
Assets at fair value
Investments
 0.07 
 - 
 5.33 
Investment in liquid funds
 639.51 
 25.00 
Liabilities at fair value
Derivative financial instruments
 - 
 0.26 
 - 
  
The fair value of investments in equity/liquid funds is based on the price quotation at the reporting date derived from 
quoted market prices in active market. The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with various banks. 

Foreign exchange forward contracts are valued mark to mark valuation as provided by the Banks.
130
33
 
RISK MANAG
E
M
E
N
T
 
Financial risk management objectives and policies
 
 
The Company™s financial risk management is an integral part of how to plan and execute its business strategies. The Company™s 
activity expose it to market risk, liquidity risk
,
 commodity risk and credit risk. In order to minimise any adverse effects on the 
financial performance of the Company, derivative financial instruments, such as foreign exchange forward contracts are entered 

to hedge certain foreign currency risk exposures. Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes and not as trading or 

speculative instruments. The Company™s financial risk management policy is set by the Managing Director and governed by 
overall direction of Board of Directors of the Company.
 
Market risk is the risk of loss of future earnings, fair values or future cash flows that may result from a change in the price of a 
financial instrument. The value of a financial instrument may change as a result of changes in the interest rates, foreign currency 

exchange rates, equity prices and other market changes that affect market risk sensitive instruments. Market risk is attributable 
to all market risk sensitive financial instruments including investments and deposits
,
 foreign currency receivables, payables and 
loans and borrowings.
S.No.
Risk
E
xposure arising from
Measurement
Risk Management
A
Credit risk
Cash and cash equivalents, trade 
receivables, derivative financial 
instruments, financial assets 

measured at amortised cost.
Ageing analysis 
 
Credit ratings
Credit limits and letters of credit 
and Performance guarantees.
B
Liquidity risk
Borrowings and other liabilities
Rolling cash flow forecasts
Availability of committed credit 
lines and borrowing facilities
C
Market risk Œ interest 
rate
Long-term borrowings at variable 

rates
Sensitivity analysis
Interest rate swaps
D
Market risk Œ foreign 
exchange
Future commercial transactions 

recognised financial assets and 
liabilities not denominated in INR.
Cash flow forecasting 
Sensitivity analysis
Forward foreign exchange 

contracts
E
Commodity risk
Purchase of Raw Material
Fluctuation of Crude 

Price and Currency rates
Procurement and inventory 

strategy
A. 
 
CR
E
DI
T
 RISK
  
Credit risk arises from the possibility that the counter party may not be able to settle their obligations as agreed. To manage 

this, the Company periodically assess financial reliability of customers, taking into account the financial condition, current 
economic trends, and analysis of historical bad debts and ageing of accounts receivable. Individual risk limits are set 
accordingly.
  
The Company considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of asset and whether there has been a significant 

increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis through each reporting period. To assess whether there is a significant increase 

in credit risk the Company compares the risk of default occurring on asset as at the reporting date with the risk of default 
as at the date of initial recognition. It considers reasonable and supportive forwarding-looking information such as:
  
i) 
 
Actual or expected significant adverse changes in business
  
ii) 
 
Actual or expected significant changes in the operating results of the counterparty
  
iii) 
 
Financial or economic conditions that are expected to cause a significant change to the counterparty™s ability to meet 
its obligations
  
iv) 
 
Significant increase in credit risk on other financial instruments of the same counterparty
  
The company catogarises financial assets based on the assumptions, inputs and factors specific to the class of financial 

assets into High-quality assets, negligible credit risk; Quality assets, low credit risk; Standard assets, moderate credit risk; 
Substandard assets, relatively high credit risk; Low quality assets, very high credit risk; Doubtful assets, credit-impaired.
  
Financial assets are written off when there is no reasonable expectations of recovery, such as a debtor failing to engage in a 
repayment plan with the Company. The Company categorises a loan or receivable for write off when a debtor fails to make 
contractual payments greater than one year past due. Where loans or receivables have been written off, the Company 
continues engage in enforcement activity to attempt to recover the receivable due. Where recoveries are made, these are 

recognized in profit or loss.
131
  
Provision for expected credit losses:
Basis for recognition of expected 
credit loss provision
Description of category
Category
Investments
Loans 
and 
deposits
T
rade 
Receivables
Assets where the counter-party has strong capacity to meet 
the obligations and where the risk of default is negligible or nil
High-quality assets, 

negligible credit risk
12 month 
expected 
credit losses
12 
month 
expected 
credit 
losses
Life time 
expected 
credit losses 
(simplified 
approach)
Assets where there is low risk of default and where the counter-

party has sufficient capacity to meet the obligations and where 
there has been low frequency of defaults in the past
Quality assets, low 
credit risk
Assets where the probability of default is considered moderate, 

counter-party where the capacity to meet the obligations is 

not strong
Standard assets, 

moderate credit risk
Assets where there has been a significant increase in credit risk 

since initial recognition. Assets where the payments are more 

than 180 days past due
Substandard assets, 

relatively high credit 

risk
Life-time 
expected 
credit losses
Life-time 
expected 
credit 
losses
Assets where there is a high probability of default. In general, 

assets where contractual payments are more than 180 days past 

due are categorised as low quality assets. Also includes assets 
where the credit risk of counter-party has increased significantly 
though payments may not be more than 180 days past due
Low quality assets, 

very high credit risk
Assets are written off when there is no reasonable expectation 

of recovery, such as a debtor declaring bankruptcy or failing to 

engage in a repayment plan with the company. The company 

categorises a loan or receivable for write off when a debtor fails 
to make contractual payments greater than 365 days past due. 
Where loans or receivables have been written off, the company 

continues to engage in enforcement activity to attempt to 

recover the receivable due. Where recoveries are made, these 

are recognised in profit or loss.
Doubtful assets, 

credit-impaired
Asset is written off
  E
xpected credit loss for loans, security deposits and investments:
  
As at 31
st
 March, 2022
Particulars
Asset 
group
E
stimated 
gross carrying 
amount at 
default
E
xpected 
probability 
of default
E
xpected 
credit 
losses
Carrying 
amount net of 
impairment 
provision
Loss allowance 

measured at 12 

month expected 
credit losses
Financial assets for which 
credit risk has not increased 

significantly since initial 
recognition
Loans
 5.25 
 - 
 0.04 
 5.21 
Security 
deposits
 24.27 
 - 
 - 
 24.27 
Loss allowance 
measured at life-
time expected 

credit losses
Financial assets for which 

credit risk has increased 

significantly and not credit-
impaired or credit impaired
NA
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
As at 31
st
 March, 2021
Particulars
Asset 
group
E
stimated 
gross 
carrying 
amount at 
default
E
xpected 
probability 
of default
E
xpected 
credit 
losses
Carrying 
amount 
net of 
impairment 
provision
Loss allowance 

measured at 12 month 
expected credit losses
Financial assets for which credit 
risk has not increased significantly 
since initial recognition
Loans
 2.77 
 - 
 0.04 
 2.73 
Security 

deposits
 25.08 
 - 
 0.05 
 25.03 
Loss allowance 
measured at life-time 
expected credit losses
Financial assets for which credit 
risk has increased significantly 
and not credit-impaired or credit 
impaired
NA
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
132
  
a. 
 
E
xpected credit loss for trade receivables under simplified approach (Refer Note 12 for ageing of 
T
rade Receivables)
  
b. 
 
Reconciliation of loss allowance provision - 
T
rade receivables
As at 31
st
 March, 2022
As at 31
st
 March, 2021
Opening provision
 6.77 
6.12
Additional provision made
 - 
 0.76 
Utilisation during the year
 (0.29)
 (0.11)
Closing provisions
 6.48 
 6.77 
   
The Company maintains exposure in cash and cash equivalents, investments in liquid mutual funds and Corporate 
deposits. Investments in liquid mutual funds and corporate deposits are fair valued on Level 1 or Level 2 inputs.
   
The Company invests after considering multiple criteria prescribed by the Risk Management Committee. These risks 

are monitored regularly by the Risk Management Committee.
 
B.
 
LI
QU
IDI
T
Y RISK
 
 
Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Company will not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time, or at 

a reasonable price. The Company™s treasury department is responsible for liquidity, funding as well as settlement 
management. In addition, processes and policies related such risk are overseen by senior management. Management 
monitors the Company™s net liquidity position through rolling forecasts on the basis of expected cash flows.
  
Financing arrangements
 
  
The Company had access to following undrawn Borrowing facilities at end of reporting period: 
As at 31
st
 March, 2022
As at 31
st
 March, 2021
Borrowings including working capital
 408.00 
 337.62 
  
Contractual maturity patterns of borrowings
  
As at 31
st
 March, 2022, the Company does not have any outstanding borrowings.
As at 31
st
 March, 2021
0-1 year
1-5 years
Total
Long term borrowings
 -   
 0.61 
 0.61 
Short term borrowings
 0.35 
 -   
 0.35 
T
otal
 0.35 
 0.61 
 0.96 
  
Refer Note 36 for contractual maturity pattern of lease liabilities.
 
  
Contractual maturity patterns of Financial Liabilities
As at 31
st
 March, 2022
As at 31
st
 March, 2021
0-12 Months
0-12 Months
Trade Payable
 795.09 
 646.72 
Payable related to Capital goods
 41.40 
 121.37 
Lease liabilities
 13.39 
 11.05 
Other Financial liabilities including derivative financial liabilities
 7.74 
 5.85 
T
otal
 857.62 
 784.99 
C. 
 
MARK
ET
 RISK- IN
TE
R
E
S
T
 RA
TE
 RISK
  
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of the financial instruments will fluctuate because of 

changes in market interest rates. In order to optimize the Company™s position with regards to interest income and interest 
expenses and to manage the interest rate risk, treasury performs a comprehensive corporate interest rate risk management 
by balancing the proportion of fixed rate and floating rate financial instruments in its total portfolio.
  
E
xposure to interest rate risk
  
The Company is not exposed to significant interest rate risk as at the respective reporting date.
D. 
 
MARK
ET
 RISK- FOR
E
IGN C
U
RR
E
NCY RISK
  
The Company operates internationally and portion of the business is transacted in several currencies and consequently 

the Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk through its sales and services in overseas and purchases from overseas 
suppliers in various foreign currencies. Exports of the company are significantly lower in comparison to its imports. Foreign 
currency exchange rate exposure is partly balanced by exports of goods and prudent hedging policy.
133
  
Foreign Currency 
E
xposure
Name of the Instrument
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
In Million 
U
S$
R 
in Crores
In Million US$
R 
in Crores
Open Foreign Exchange Exposures - Receivable
 6.36 
 48.20 
 2.92 
 21.36 
Open Foreign Exchange Exposures - Payable
 45.08 
 341.66 
28.01
 204.80 
  
Foreign Currency Risk Sensitivity
 
 
 
A change of 1% in Foreign currency would have following Impact on profit before tax:
Name of the Instrument
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
1% appreciation 
in 
U
S$
1% depreciation 
in 
U
S$
1% appreciation 
in US$
1% depreciation 
in US$
Increase / (decrease) in profit or loss
 (2.93)
 2.93 
 (1.83)
 1.83 
  
Derivative financial instruments
  
The Company holds derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency forward to mitigate the risk of changes in 
exchange rates on foreign currency exposures. The counterparty for these contracts is generally are banks. These derivative 
financial instruments are valued based on quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs that are 
directly or indirectly observable in the market place.
Name of the Instrument
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
In Million 
U
S$
R 
in Crores
In Million US$
R 
in Crores
Forward Purchase
 23.12 
177.94
 16.34 
119.89
  
The Company enjoys natural hedge to the extent of exports effected. Although the Company believes that these derivatives 

constitute hedges from a economic prospective, they might not qualify for hedge accounting under Ind AS 109.
E
.
 
COMMODI
T
Y RISK
  
Principal Raw Material for Company™s products is variety of plastic polymers which are primarily Derivatives of Crude Oil. 

Company sources its raw material requirement from across the globe. Domestic market prices are also generally remains 
in sync with international market price scenario.
 
  
Volatility in Crude Oil prices, Currency fluctuation of Rupee vis-à-vis other prominent currencies coupled with demandŒ
supply scenario in the world market affect the effective price and availability of polymers for the Company. Company 

effectively manages deals with availability of material as well as price volatility through:
  
1. 
 
Widening its sourcing base
  
2. 
 
Appropriate contracts and commitments
  
3. 
 
Well planned procurement & inventory strategy and
  
4. 
 
Prudent hedging policy on foreign currency exposure
  
Risk committee of the Company comprising members from Board of Directors and operations has developed and enacted 

a risk management strategy regarding commodity Price risk and its mitigation.
F.
 
IMPAC
T
 OF CO
V
ID-19
  
The Company has considered the possible impact of COVID-19 in preparation of financials statements. The impact of the 

global health pandemic may be different from that estimated as at the date of approval of financial statements. Considering 
the continuing uncertainties, the Company will continue to closely monitor any material changes to future economic 
conditions.
 
34
 
C
API
T
AL
 
RISK
 
MANAG
E
M
E
N
T
 
A
 T
he Company™s objectives when managing capital are to

and benefits for other stakeholders

  
The Company monitors capital on the basis of the following debt equity ratio:
31 March, 2022
31 March, 2021
Net Debt
 - 
 - 
Total Equity
 3,387.94 
 2,869.17 
Net Debt to 
T
otal 
E
quity
 - 
 - 
  
Company believes in conservative leverage policy. Company™s capex plan over the medium term shall be largely funded 

through internal accruals.
     
134
 
B
 
The Company follows the policy of Dividend for every financial year as may be decided by Board considering financial 
performance of the company and other internal and external factors enumerated in the Company dividend policy. As per the 
dividend policy, generally the Company maintains a dividend pay-out ratio in the range of 35 % to 55% of net profit (PAT).
  
Dividends declared by the Company are based on the profit available for distribution. On 29th April, 2022, the Board of 
Directors of the Company have proposed a final dividend of 
r
 18 per share in respect of the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022 
subject to the approval of shareholders at the ensuing Annual General Meeting, and if approved, would result in a cash 
outflow of approximately 
r
 228.65 Crores.
35
 
DISCLOS
U
R
E
 P
U
RS
U
AN
T
 
T
O IND AS - 19 ﬁ
E
MPLOY
EE
 B
E
N
E
FI
T
Sﬂ
 
i) 
 
Gratuity:
 In accordance with the applicable laws, the Company provides for gratuity, a defined benefit retirement plan 
(ﬁThe Gratuity Planﬂ) covering eligible employees. The Gratuity Plan provides for a lump sum payment to vested employees 

on retirement (subject to completion of five years of continuous employment), death, incapacitation or termination of 
employment that are based on last drawn salary and tenure of employment. Liabilities with regard to the Gratuity Plan are 

determined by actuarial valuation on the reporting date and the Company makes annual contribution to the gratuity fund 
administered by life Insurance Companies under their respective Group Gratuity Schemes.
  
The disclosure in respect of the defined Gratuity Plan are given below:
  
A.
 
Balance Sheet
Defined benefit plans
As at 31
st
 March, 
2022
As at 31
st
 March, 
2021
Present value of plan liabilities
 65.56 
 59.82 
Fair value of plan assets
 67.52 
 59.20 
Asset/(Liability) recognised
 1.96 
 (0.62)
  
B.
 
Movements in plan assets and plan liabilities
Present value of 
obligations
Fair 
V
alue of
 
Plan assets
As at 1
st
 April 2021
 59.82 
 59.20 
Current service cost
 3.75 
 - 
Interest Cost
 4.13 
 - 
Interest Income
 - 
 4.08 
Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net finance income/cost
 - 
 (0.03)
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes in demographic assumptions
 (0.06)
 - 
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes in financial assumptions
 (1.91)
 - 
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from experience adjustments
 3.19 
 - 
Employer contributions
 - 
 7.63 
Benefit payments
 (3.36)
 (3.36)
As at 31
st
 March 2022
 65.56 
 67.52 
As at 1
st
 April 2020
 53.21 
 47.50 
Current service cost
 3.48 
 - 
Interest Cost
 3.65 
 - 
Interest Income
 - 
 3.26 
Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net finance income/cost
 - 
 (0.48)
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes in demographic assumptions
 - 
 - 
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes in financial assumptions
 (0.19)
 - 
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from experience adjustments
 1.45 
 - 
Employer contributions
 - 
 10.71 
Benefit payments
 (1.78)
 (1.79)
As at 31
st
 March 2021
 59.82 
 59.20 
   
The liabilities are split between different categories of plan participants as follows:

   
The Company expects to contribute 
r
 1.66 Crores to the funded plans in financial year 2022-23
   
The Plan assets have been invested in Insurance managed funds.
135
  
C.
 
Statement of Profit and Loss
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
E
mployee Benefit 
E
xpenses:
Current service cost
 3.75 
 3.48 
Interest cost/(income)
 0.05 
 0.39 
T
otal amount recognised in Statement of profit & loss
 3.80 
 3.87 
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability:
Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net finance income/(cost)
 (0.03)
 (0.48)
Experience gains/(losses)
 (1.22)
 (1.26)
T
otal amount recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
 (1.25)
 (1.74)
  
D.
 
Assumptions
   
With the objective of presenting the plan assets and plan liabilities of the defined benefits plans at their fair value on 
the balance sheet, assumptions under Ind AS 19 are set by reference to market conditions at the valuation date.
   
The significant actuarial assumptions were as follows:
As at 31
st
 March, 2022
As at 31
st
 March, 2021
Financial Assumptions
Discount rate
7.29%
6.90%
Expected Rate of Return on plan assets
7.29%
6.90%
Salary Escalation Rate
6.00%
6.00%
Attrition Rate
2.00%
2.00%
Demographic Assumptions
Indian Assured Lives Mortality
 
 2012-14 (
U
rban)
Indian Assured Lives Mortality
 
 (2006-08) Ultimate
  E
. 
 
Sensitivity
   
The sensitivity of the overall plan liabilities to changes in the weighted key assumptions are:
As at 31
st
 March, 2022
As at 31
st
 March, 2021
Impact on defined benefit obligation
Increase/Decrease in liability
Increase/Decrease in liability
+1.00% Change in rate of discounting
 (2.30)
 (2.22)
-1.00% Change in rate of discounting
 2.47 
 2.39 
+1.00% Change in rate of Salary increase
 5.14 
 4.97 
Œ1.00% Change in rate of Salary increase
 (4.53)
 (4.36)
+1.00% Change in Attrition Rate
 0.23 
 0.15 
Œ1.00% Change in Attrition Rate
 (0.25)
 (0.16)
   
The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions 
occurring at the end of the reporting year and may not be representative of the actual change. It is based on a change in 
the key assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity to the assumption, the 
same method used to calculate the liability recognised in the balance sheet has been applied. The methods and types of 

assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared with the previous year.
 
  
F.
 T
he major categories of plan asset are as follows:
 
As at 31
st
 March, 
2022
As at 31
st
 March, 
2021
Equities
Œ
Œ
Bonds
Œ
Œ
Gilts
Œ
Œ
Pooled assets with an insurance company
100%
100%
Other
Œ
Œ
100%
100%
136
  
G.
 T
he defined benefit obligations shall mature as follows:
Particulars
As at 31
st
 March, 
2022
As at 31
st
 March, 
2021
Within 1 year
 11.12 
 9.39 
1-2 year
 3.54 
 2.89 
2-3 year
 5.32 
 4.15 
3-4 year
 6.70 
 4.82 
4-5 year
 5.21 
 6.21 
5-10 year
 24.15 
 22.04 
More than 10 year
 75.81 
 69.80 
 
ii) 
 
Compensated Absences:
 The Company permits encashment of compensated absence accumulated by their employees 
on retirement, separation and during the course of service. The liability in respect of the Company, for outstanding balance 
of leave at the balance sheet date is determined and provided on the basis of actuarial valuation as at the balance sheet 

date performed by an independent actuary. The Company doesn™t maintain any plan assets to fund its obligation towards 
compensated absences.
 
iii) 
 
Notes:
  
Liability for post employment benefits, other long term benefits, termination benefits and certain short term benefits such 
as compensated absences is provided on an actuarial basis for the Company as a whole. Accordingly the amount for above 

pertaining to key management personnel is not ascertainable and, therefore, not included above.
36
 
L
E
AS
E
S
 
Under Ind AS 116, the nature of expenses in respect of operating leases has changed from ﬁlease rentﬂ to ﬁdepreciation costﬂ 

and ‚™finance cost™™ for the right-to-use assets and for interest accrued on lease liability respectively.
 
The weighted average lessee™s incremental borrowing rate applied to the lease liabilities is 9% p.a.
 
Changes in the carrying value of right to use assets are:
Particulars
T
ype of Right to use assets
T
otal
Building
V
ehicles
Land
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2021
 31.16 
 4.07 
 31.93 
 67.16 
Additions
 16.23 
 5.06 
 3.79 
 25.08 
Depreciation and amortisation expenses (Refer Note 5)
 10.87 
 2.25 
 0.39 
 13.51 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
 36.52 
 6.88 
 35.33 
 78.73 
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
 35.27 
 4.63 
 18.68 
 58.58 
Additions
 6.80 
 1.35 
 13.49 
 21.64 
Depreciation and amortisation expenses (Refer Note 5)
 10.91 
 1.91 
 0.24 
 13.06 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
 31.16 
 4.07 
 31.93 
 67.16 
 
Movement in lease liabilities:
As at 31
st
 March, 
2022
As at 31
st
 March, 
2021
Opening Balance
 36.71 
 39.89 
Additions
 20.67 
 8.01 
Interest accrued during the year
 3.76 
 3.68 
Deletions
-
-
Payment of lease liabilities
 15.46 
 14.87 
Closing Balance
 45.68 
 36.71 
-
   
Current lease liabilities
 13.39 
 11.05 
-
   
Non- current lease liabilities
 32.29 
 25.66 
137
 
Break-up of the contractual maturities of lease liabilities on an undiscounted basis: 
As at 31
st
 March, 
2022
As at 31
st
 March, 
2021
Less than one year
 13.39 
 11.05 
One to five years
 24.57 
 25.11 
More than 5 years
 7.72 
 0.55 
 
Breakup of Short-term leases expenses incurred:
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Rental expense
2.17 
 1.28 
Vehicle expenses
3.52 
 2.34
37
 E
ARNINGS P
E
R SHAR
E
 (
E
PS)
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Profit after tax(PAT)
811.89 
801.38 
Weighted average number of equity Shares (In Nos.)
127026870 
127026870 
Nominal value of equity Shares (In 
r
)
2.00 
2.00 
Basic & diluted earning per share (In 
r
)
63.91 
63.09
38
 
CON
T
ING
E
N
T
 LIABILI
T
I
E
S
As at 31
st
 March, 
2022
As at 31
st
 March, 
2021
Bills/Cheque™s discounted
 7.17 
 15.05 
Diputed Excise and Service Tax demands
 41.83 
 41.83 
Disputed Income Tax demands
 10.14 
 10.46 
Disputed Sales Tax / Entry Tax demands
 2.16 
 2.48 
Other claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts
7.08
 8.96
 
Notes:
 
a) 
 
Most of the issues of litigation pertaining to Central Excise/Income Tax are based on interpretation of the respective Law 
& Rules thereunder. Management has been opined by its counsel that many of the issues raised by revenue will not be 
sustainable in law as they are covered by judgments of respective judicial authorities which supports its contention. As such 

no material impact on the financials of the Company is envisaged.
 
b) 
 
Sales Tax and Entry Tax related litigation/demand primarily pertains to non- receipt of declaration forms from customers and 

mismatch of input tax credit or some interpretation related issues w.r.t. applicability of schemes. Counsel of the Company 
opined positive outcome based on merits of the cases under litigation. As such no material impact on the financials of the 
Company is envisaged.
 
c) 
 
Other issues are either in ordinary course of business or not of substantial nature and management is reasonably confident of 

their positive outcome. Management shall deal with them judiciously and provide for appropriately, if any such need arises.
39
 
COMMI
T
M
E
N
T
S
 
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on Capital Account and not provided for (net of advances) is 
r
 237.62 

Crores (Previous year 
r
 178.58 Crores).
40
 
DISCLOS
U
R
E
 ON R
E
LA
TE
D PAR
T
Y 
T
RANSAC
T
IONS
 
Names of related parties and description of relationship and Nature of 
T
ransactions:
 
Parties where controls exists :
 
The Supreme Industries Overseas FZE, Dubai - Subsidiary
Nature of 
T
ransactions
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Sale of goods
 0.05 
 0.40 
Receiving of services - excluding taxes
 1.50 
 1.27 
Outstanding at year-end - Receivable
 - 
 0.18 
Outstanding at year-end - Payable
 1.90 
 1.28 
138
 
Associate and other related parties with whom transaction have been entered during the course of business:
 
Supreme Petrochem Limited (associate)
Supreme Petrochem Limited
Nature of 
T
ransactions
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Purchase of goods
 107.30 
 81.84 
Sale of goods
 1.95 
 1.50 
Dividend Received
 47.75 
 11.57 
Capital Reduction on account of investment value reduced of equity shares from 
 
r
 10 each to 
r
 4 each
 17.36 
 - 
Outstanding at year-end - Receivable
 0.07 
 0.16 
Amount receivable at year-end - towards its capital reduction
 17.36 
 - 
Outstanding at year-end - Payable/(Advance)
 (1.22)
 16.39 
 
Key Managerial Personnel:
 
Mr. M P Taparia, Managing Director ; Mr. S J Taparia, Executive Director ; Mr. V K Taparia, Executive Director ; Mr. P.C. Somani, 
Chief Financial Officer ; Mr. R.J. Saboo, VP (Corporate Affairs) & Company Secretary.
Mr. M P 
T
aparia, Managing 
Director
Mr. S J 
T
aparia, 
E
xecutive 
Director
Nature of 
T
ransactions
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Managerial Remunaration paid
15.33
 14.56 
15.55
 14.62 
Outstanding at year-end - Payable
 11.18 
 11.25 
 11.16 
 11.25 
Mr. 
V
 K 
T
aparia, 
E
xecutive 
Director
Others
Nature of 
T
ransactions
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Managerial Remunaration paid
15.37
 14.55 
 2.86 
 2.36 
Outstanding at year-end - Payable
 11.15 
 11.25 
 0.35 
 0.28 
 
As the liabilities for gratuity and compensated absences are provided on actuarial basis for the Company as a whole, the 

amounts pertaining to individual Key Management Personnel are not separately available.
 
 E
nterprises in which Directors have significant influence:
 
Devvrat Impex Private Limited, Supreme Foundation, Shri Surajmal Taparia Memorial Trust, Smt. Moharidevi Taparia Memorial 

Trust, Smt. Moharidevi Taparia Kanya Mahavidyalay Trust, Shree Jeetmal Taparia Memorial Trust
Nature of 
T
ransactions
Devvrat Impex Private Limited
Others - 
T
rusts
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Sale of goods
 51.43 
 40.89 
 0.19 
 0.05 
Donations towards corporate social responsibility
 - 
 - 
 12.18 
 10.00 
Receiving of services - excluding taxes
 0.01 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at year-end - Receivable
 0.51 
 0.67 
 0.01 
 - 
Outstanding at year-end - Payable
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 
Other Related Parties:
 
Non 
E
xecutive Directors
 
Mr. B. L. Taparia, Chairman ; Director ; Mr. R. Kannan, Director ; Mr. R. M. Pandia, Director ; Mr. Sarthak Behuria, Director  ; 

Ms. Ameeta Parpia, Director ; Mr. B. V. Bhargava, Director (upto 16th September, 2021) ; Mr. Y. P. Trivedi, Director (upto 16th 
September, 2021)
 
Mr. Vivek Taparia, Business Development Manager (Relative of Director)
Nature of 
T
ransactions
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Remunaration paid
 0.84 
 0.68 
Sitting Fees & Commission to Non Executive Directors
 1.30 
 1.33 
Outstanding at year-end - Payable
 0.61 
 1.36 
 
Notes:
 
a)
 
 
 
Related party relationship is as identified by the management and relied upon by the auditors.
 
 
b) 
  
No amounts in respect of related parties have been written off/ written back during the year or has not made any provision 

for doubtful debts/ receivable.
139
 
c) 
 
Related party transactions have been disclosed on basis of value of transactions in terms of the respective contracts.
 
d) 
 
Terms and conditions of sales and purchases: the sales and purchases transactions among the related parties are in 
the ordinary course of business based on normal commercial terms, conditions, market rates and memorandum of 
understanding signed with the related parties. For the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022, the Company has not recorded any 
loss allowances for transactions between the related parties.
41
 
In terms of para 4 of Ind As 108 ﬁOperating Segmentsﬂ, segment information has been provided in the notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
42
 
During the year, pursuant to revised notification/guidelines issued by the State government of Madhya Pradesh, Industrial 

subsidy claims post GST regime have been recomputed, Accordingly claims receivable amounting to Rs. 12.62 crores in respect 
of FY 2017-18 to FY 2020-21 has been reversed and has been adjusted from Government grants/subsidy (Refer Note 24 - Other 
operating income).
43
 
Post GST, pending notification from the State government of West Bengal, the Company has not recognized (Amount not 

ascertainable) benefit of Industrial Promotion Assistance Scheme pertaining to Kharagpur Unit since July,2017. The Company 
is hopeful of continuance of the Scheme and benefits accruing therefrom.
44
 
D
E
B
T
 R
E
CONCILIA
T
ION
Particulars
For the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022
For the year ended 31
st
 March, 2021
Deferred payment 
liabilities
Working Capital 
Loans
Deferred payment 
liabilities
Working Capital 
Loans
Opening Net Debt
 0.96 
 - 
 1.22 
 410.59 
Proceeds from Borrowings
-
 71.31 
-
 193.42 
Repayment of Borrowings (Net)
 (1.05)
 (71.31)
 (0.34)
 (603.48)
Interest Expenses on Borrowings
-
-
-
 14.82 
Interest Paid
-
-
-
 (15.35)
Unwinding of discount on deferred sales tax
 0.09 
-
 0.08 
 - 
Closing Net Debt
 - 
 - 
 0.96 
 - 
45
 
PAYM
E
N
T
 
T
O A
U
DI
T
ORS 
(Including Branch auditors excluding GST)
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Audit fees
 0.72 
 0.61 
Tax audit fees
 0.21 
 0.18 
Limited review and certification fees
 0.14 
 0.12 
Reimbursement of expenses
 0.04 
 0.03 
T
O
T
AL PAYM
E
N
T
 
T
O A
U
DI
T
ORS
 1.11 
 0.94 
46
 
CORPORA
TE
 SOCIAL R
E
SPONSIBILI
T
Y:
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
(a)
 
Amount required to be spent as per Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013
 15.69 
 12.50 
(b)
 
Amount Spent during the year
 
(a)
   
 Construction/Acquisition of assets
 - 
 - 
 
(b)
   
 On purpose other than above
 15.78 
 12.07 
(c)
 E
xcess amount spent under section 135 (5)
 
Carrid forward Opening Balance Excess/(Short)
 - 
 0.43 
 
Amount required to be spent during the year
 15.69 
 12.50 
 
Actual amount spent/incurred during the year
 15.78 
 12.07 
 
Carried forward Closing Balance Excess/(Short)
 0.09 
 -
(d)
 
Nature of CSR activities
E
ducation, Skilling, 
E
mployment, 
Health, Wellness, Water, Sanitation, 
Disaster Relief and Hygiene
(e)
 
Details of related party transactions in relation to CSR expenditure as per 
 
 
relevant Accounting Standard
 12.18 
 10.00 
140
47
 
RA
T
IOS
Particulars
Measure
Current year
 
Numerator
Current year
 
Denominator
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
% 
variance
Reason for 
V
ariance
Current Ratio 
 
(
Current Assets / Current Liabilities)
Times
2473.81
1001.27
2.47
2.13
15.94%
Debt-
E
quity Ratio
 
(Total Debt / Shareholder™s Equity)
Times
 - 
3387.94
 - 
 - 
 - 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio 
(Earnings available for debt service 

/ Debt Services)
Times
1242.19
5.15
241.20
56.68
325.58%
Company is 

debt free hence  

interest cost is 

on lower side
Return on 
E
quity Ratio
 
(Net Profits after taxes / Average 

Shareholder™s Equity)*100
Percentage
811.89
3128.56
25.95%
32.04%
-19.01%
Inventory turnover ratio
 
(Cost of Goods Sold/Average 

Inventory)
Times
5353.16
1010.46
5.30
4.90
8.20%
T
rade Receivables turnover ratio
 
(Revenue from operations / 

Average Trade Receivables)
Times
7772.81
428.43
18.14
18.09
0.30%
T
rade payables turnover ratio
 
(Net Credit Purchase / Average 

Trade payables)
Times
7319.47
720.91
10.15
8.30
22.29%
Net capital turnover ratio
 
(Revenue from operations / 

Average Working Capital)
Times
7772.81
1283.98
6.05
8.31
-27.18%
Higher 

inventory 

carrying to 

cater seasonal 

demands & 

further value 
increased 
due to higher 

polymer 

prices.
Net profit ratio
 
(Profit After Tax/Total Income)*100
Percentage
811.89
7840.51
10.36%
12.55%
-17.51%
Return on Capital employed
 
(Earnings before Interest & tax / 
Average Capital Employed)
Percentage
1080.37
3220.04
33.55%
41.78%
-19.69%
Return on investment
 
(Profit after tax / Total Equity)*100
Percentage
811.89
3387.94
23.96%
27.93%
-14.20%
 
48
 
R
E
LA
T
IONSHIP WI
T
H S
T
R
U
CK OFF COMPANI
E
S
Name of struck off company
Nature of transactions
Balance outstanding
Relationship
Airtech HVAC Private Limited
Advance to Supplier
NIL
 Supplier
49
 
(a) 
 
No proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Company for holding any Benami property under the Benami 

Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988, as amended, and rules made thereunder.
 
(b) 
 
The Company does not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory 
period.
 
(c) 
 
The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
 
(d) 
 
There were no transactions relating to previously unrecorded income that have been surrendered and disclosed as income 
during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
 
(e) 
 
The Company has not advanced or loaned to or invested in funds to any other person(s) or entity(is), including foreign 

entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
  
(i) 
 
directly or indirectly lend to or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 

of the company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
  
(ii) 
 
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
 
141
 
(f) 
 
The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(is), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall
  
(i) 
 
directly or indirectly lend to or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 

of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
  
(ii) 
 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
50
 
The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‚Code™) relating to employee benefits during employment and post-employment benefits 

has been published in the Gazette of India. However, the date on which the Code will come into effect has not been notified. 
The Company will assess the impact of the Code and recognise the same when the Code becomes effective.
51
 
The previous year figures have been re-grouped / re-classified wherever required to conform to current year™s classification.
Signature to Notes 1-51
For and on behalf of the Board
B. L. 
T
aparia
M. P. 
T
aparia
S. J. 
T
aparia
Chairman
Managing Director
Executive Director
(DIN No. 00112438)
(DIN No. 00112461)
(DIN No. 00112513)
V
. K. 
T
aparia
R. M. Pandia
Ameeta Parpia
Executive Director
Director
Director
(DIN No. 00112567)
(DIN No. 00021730)
(DIN No. 02654277)
R. Kannan
Sarthak Behuria
P. C. Somani
Director
Director
Chief Financial Officer
(
DIN No. 00380328
)
(
DIN No. 03290288
)
R. J. Saboo
VP (Corporate Affairs) & Company Secretary
Mumbai, 29
th
 April, 2022
142
Independent Auditors™ Report on Consolidated Financial Statements
To the Members of 
 
The Supreme Industries Limited
Report on the Audit of Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of The Supreme Industries Limited (ﬁthe Parent Companyﬂ), its 
wholly owned foreign subsidiary and its associate (hereinafter to be referred as ﬁthe Groupﬂ) which comprises of consolidated Balance 
Sheet as at March 31, 2022, the consolidated Statement of Profit & Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the consolidated 

Statement of Changes in Equity and the consolidated Statement of Cash Flow for the year then ended (Refer ﬁOther Mattersﬂ section 
below) and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory info
rmation 

in which are included the financial statements of 24 manufacturing units  (including 27  - Depots, 7 - Fabrication units and 6 - offices) 
located across India [hereinafter referred to as ﬁBranchesﬂ] for the year ended on that date audited by  9  branch auditors
 In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid consolidated  financial 
statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act)  in the manner so required and give a true and fair 

view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group  as at 
31
st
 March 2022, the consolidated profit (including other comprehensive income), consolidated changes in equity and its consolidated 
cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under 
section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditor™s Responsibilities for the 
Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the 
Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant 

to our audit of the consolidated financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. 
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports 
referred to in Other Matter paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated 
financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Sr. 
No
Key Audit Matters
Auditor™s response
1.
Industrial Promotion Scheme (IPS) receivable of 
R
 85.88 
crores as at March 31, 2022 
Other current and non-current assets include government 
grant receivable in the form of refund of Sales tax/GST under 

IPS Scheme of 
R
 85.88 crores as at March 31, 2022 (
R
 95.09 
crores as at March 31, 2021) from the states of Maharashtra, 

Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan as per the 

respective schemes/ notifications announced/ issued by the 
aforesaid State Governments.
Post GST, the state of west Bengal is yet to notify the IPS 
scheme and accordingly, the Company has not recognized 
grant, since July 2017, in this regard. The amount whereof 
is presently not ascertainable. 
Management judgement is involved in assessing the 
accounting for grants and particularly in considering the 
probability of a grant being released and we have accordingly 

designated this as a focus area of the audit.
Audit Procedure performed:
In response to the risk of completeness of the accruals in the 
standalone financial statements:
We have examined the eligibility certificates and obtained a 
list of year wise break- up of the IPS receivables by the Parent 
Company for all the financial years. 
We had discussed the status of the assessment of grants 
receivable for all the financial years and the Management 
view on the expected time frame by which the grants will be 
released. 
Additionally, we have considered the status of the previous 
assessments and the adjustments, if any, done by the respective 
concerned authorities.
Based on the procedures performed, those gave us sufficient 
evidence to conclude that the grants have been accounted in 
terms of the schemes/notifications announced/issued by various 
state governments.
Information Other than the Consolidated Financial Statements and auditor™s report thereon
The Parent Company™s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of other information. The Other information comprises 

the information included in the Management Discussion and Analysis, Board™s Report including Annexures to the Board report but 
does not include the consolidated financial statement and our auditor™s report thereon.
143
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing 
so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge 
obtained during the course of our audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we required 
to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management for the Consolidated Financial Statements
The Parent Company™s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation 
of these consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated financial 
performance (including other comprehensive income), consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group in 
accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the accounting Standards specified under section 

133 of the Act.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Group and for preventing and 
detecting 
frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are 

reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of 
the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 

error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the Directors of the Parent 
Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the Companies included in the Group are 
responsible for assessing the ability of the companies to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to 
going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to 
cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
The respective Board of Directors of the Companies included in the Group are also responsible for overseeing the financial reporting 
process of the Group.
Auditor™s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from 

material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor™s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance 
is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a materia
l 
misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the 
audit. We also:
 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one 
resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal 

control. 

circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Company 

has adequate internal financial control system in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls. 

made by the management. 

obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity™s 

ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in
 our 
auditor™s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify 
our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor™s report. However, future 

events or conditions may cause the entity to cease to continue as a going concern. 

whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair 

presentation. 

Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audit of the financial statements of such entities included in the consolidated financial statements of whic
h we 
are independent auditors. For the other entities included in the consolidated financial statements, which have been audited by 
144
other auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out
 by 
them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the consolidated financial statements that individually or in aggregate makes it probable 

that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable user of the consolidated financial statements may be influenced. We 
consider quantitative materiality and qualitative factors in (i) planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the 
results of our 
work and (ii) to evaluate the effect of any identified misstatements in the consolidated financial statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Parent Company of which we are the independent auditors regarding, 
among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant 
deficiencies 
in internal control that we identify during our audit. 
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in 
the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these 

matters in our auditor™s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters:
(a)
 
We did not audit the financial statements the branches included in the consolidated financial statements of the group whose 
financial statements reflects total assets of 
R
 3,268.37 crores as at March 31, 2022 (
R
 2,726.64 crores as at March 31, 2021) 
and total revenue of 
R
 7,469.79 crores for the year ended on that date (
R
 6,173.06 crores for the year ended March 31, 2021), 

as considered in the consolidated financial statements. The financial statements of these branches have been audited by the 
 
9 branch auditors whose reports have been furnished to us, and our opinion in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures 
included in respect of these branches, is based solely on the report of such branch auditors.
(b)
 
We did not audit the financial statements of a subsidiary included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group whose 
financial statements reflects total assets of 
R
 3.39 crores as at March 31, 2022 (as at 31 March, 2021 
R
 3.48 crores); total revenue 
of 
R
 1.56 crores, net loss of 
R
 0.10 crores and net cash inflow of 
R
 0.80 crores for the year ended 31 March, 2022 (revenue of 
R
 
1.74 crores, net loss of 
R
 0.10 crores and net cash outflow of 
R
 0.71 crores for the year ended March 31, 2021), as considered 
in the consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements also include the Group™s share of net profit of 
 
R
 203.88 crores for the year ended 31 March, 2022 (
R
 146.73 crores for the year ended 31 March, 2021), as considered in the 

consolidated financial statements, in respect of an associate, whose financial statements / financial information have not been 

audited by us. 
 
These financial statements have been audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the Management 
and our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in 

respect of the subsidiary and associates, and our report in terms of sub-section (3) and (11) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far 
as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiary and associates, is based solely on the report of other auditors.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements is not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on 
the work done and the reports of the other auditors.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.
 
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
 
(a)
 
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were 

necessary for the purposes of our audit.
 
(b)
 
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law maintained by the Group have been kept so far as it appears 

from our examination of those books and records.
 
(c)
 
The reports on the financial statements of branches of the Company audited under section 143(8) of the Act by nine firms 
of independent auditors have been sent to us and properly dealt with by us in preparing this report.
 
(d)
 
The Consolidated Balance sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Profit & Loss (including other comprehensive income), 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account.
 
(e)
 
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended.
 
(f)
 
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Parent Company as on 31st March, 2022 
taken on record by the Board of Directors of the Parent Company and the reports of the statutory auditor of associate 
company incorporated in India, none of the directors of the Group companies and its associate company incorporated in 

India is disqualified as on 31
st
 March, 2022 from being appointed as a Director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
 
(g)
 
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Parent Company and the 

operating effectiveness of such controls, please refer Annexure B of the standalone audit report attached with the standalone 
financial statements included in this annual report.
 
(h)
 
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor™s Report in accordance with the requirements of 
 
Sec 197(16) of the Act, as amended:
145
  
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by 
the Group to its directors during the year is in accordance with the provisions of section 197 of the Act.
 
(i)
 
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor™s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given 
to us:  
  
i.
 
The Group has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial performance in its consolidated financial 
statements. [Refer note no. 38 to the standalone financial statements]
  
ii.
 
The Group did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material 
foreseeable losses. 
  
iii.
 
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund.
  
iv.
 
a)
 
The Management of the Parent Company and an associate, which is incorporated in India and whose financial 
statements have been audited under the Act, have represented to us and to the other auditor of such associate 

that, to the best of their  knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) 
have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) by the Company or associate to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entity 

(ﬁIntermediariesﬂ), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, 
whether, directly or indirectly lend to or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Company or associate (ﬁUltimate Beneficiariesﬂ) or provide any guarantee, security or the 

like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
   
b) 
 
The Management of the Parent Company and an associate , which is  incorporated in India and whose financial 

statements have  been audited under the Act, have represented to us and to other auditor of such associate that, 

to the best of their knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) 
have been received by the Company or associate from any person or entity, including foreign entity (ﬁFunding 
Partiesﬂ), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company or associate shall, 

whether, directly or indirectly, lend to or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party (ﬁUltimate Beneficiariesﬂ) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
   
c) 
 
Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances 

performed by us and that performed by the auditors of the associate, which are incorporated in India and whose 
financial statements have been audited under the Act, nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to 
believe that the representation under sub clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e) of The Companies (Audit and Auditors) 

Rules, 2014, as provided under (a) and (b) above, contains any material misstatement.
  
v. 
 
a) 
 
The final dividend paid by the Company and its associate during the year in respect of the previous year is in 

accordance with section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of dividend.
   
b) 
 
The interim dividend declared and paid by the Company and its associate during the year is in accordance with 
the section 123 of the Act.
   
c) 
 
As stated in the note 34(B) to the standalone financial statements, the Board of Directors of the Company and its 
associate has proposed final dividend for the year which is subject to the approval of the members at the ensuing 
annual general meeting. The dividend declared is in accordance with section 123 of the Act to the extent it 
applies to the declaration of dividend.
2.
  
With respect to the matters specified in paragraphs 3(xxi) and 4 of the Companies (Auditor™s Report) Order, 2020 (the ﬁOrderﬂ/ 
ﬁCAROﬂ) issued by the Central Government in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, to be included in the Auditor™s report, 
according to the information and explanations given to us,and based on the CARO reports issued by us for the Parent Company 

and by the auditors of the associate company included in the consolidated financial statements of the Parent Company, to 
which reporting under CARO is applicable, we report that there are no qualifications or adverse remarks in these CARO reports.
For 
LODHA & COMPANY
 
Chartered Accountants
 
Firm registration No. Œ 301051E
A. M. Hariharan
 
Partner
 
Membership No. 38323
 
UDIN: 22038323AIJDTK3152
Place : Mumbai
 
Date: 
29
th 
April, 2022
146
I
 in Crores
PARTICULARS
Note
As at 31ŒMarŒ22
As at 31ŒMarŒ21
ASSETS
(1)
 
NON - CURRENT ASSETS
 
(a) 
 
Property, plant & equipment
2
1682.11
1636.16
 
(b) 
 
Capital work-in-progress
3
154.59
49.62
 
(c) 
 
Intangible assets
4
6.44
10.96
 
(d) 
 
Intangible assets under development
4A
1.18
1.40
 
(e) 
 
Right to use - Lease
5
78.73
67.16
 
(f) 
 
Investment in associates
6
470.22
331.19
 
(g) 
 
Financial assets
  
(i) 
 
Other investments
6
5.67
5.40
  
(ii) 
 
Deposits
7
22.41
20.19
  
(iii) 
 
Loans
8
1.17
29.25
1.08
26.67
 
(g)
 
Other non-current assets
10
98.05
93.14
TOTAL NON - CURRENT ASSETS
2520.57
2216.30
(2) 
 
CURRENT ASSETS
 
(a) 
 
Inventories
11
1260.16
760.76
 
(b) 
 
Financial assets
  
(i)
 
Trade receivables
12
466.81
389.90
  
(ii)
 
Cash & cash equivalents
13
519.04
761.51
  
(iii)
 
Other bank balances
14
7.36
6.88
  
(iv)
 
Deposits
7
1.94
4.92
  
(v) 
 
Loans
8
4.04
1.65
  
(vi)
 
Other financial assets
9
18.83
1018.02
0.54
1165.40
 
(c)
 
Income tax assets (net)
23
15.42
 -   
 
(d)
 
Other current assets
10
181.70
139.81
 
(e) 
 
Assets held for disposal
 -   
0.02
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS
2475.30
2065.99
TOTAL ASSETS
4995.87
4282.29
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

EQUITY

Equity share capital
15
25.41
25.41
Other equity
16
3818.95
3143.80
TOTAL EQUITY
3844.36
3169.21
LIABILITIES

(1) 
 
NON - CURRENT LIABILITIES
 
(a) 
 
Financial liabilities
  
(i) 
 
Borrowings
17
 -   
0.61
  
(ii)
 
Deposits
18
4.03
4.30
  
(iii) 
 
Lease liabilities
32.29
36.32
25.66
30.57
 
(b) 
 
Provisions
19
24.39
22.42
 
(c) 
 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
90.44
91.92
TOTAL NON - CURRENT LIABILITIES
151.15
144.91
(2) 
 
CURRENT LIABILITIES
      
 
(a) 
 
Financial liabilities
  
(i) 
 
Borrowings
17
 -   
0.35
  
(ii)
 
Trade payables
20
   
Dues of micro, small and medium enterprises
22.15
12.32
   
Dues of creditors other than micro, small and medium enterprises
771.86
633.84
          
 
(iii) 
 
Deposits
18
1.68
0.87
  
(iv) 
 
Lease liabilities
13.39
11.05
  
(v) 
 
Other financial liabilities
21
49.14
858.22
127.57
786.00
 
(b) 
 
Other current liabilities
22
134.54
168.23
 
(c) 
 
Provisions
19
7.60
7.41
 
(d) 
 
Income tax liabilities (net)
23
 -   
6.53
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES
1000.36
968.17
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
4995.87
4282.29
Significant Accounting Policies.
1
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated 
Balance Sheet as at 31
st
 March, 2022
As per our attached report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For 
LODHA & COMPANY
Chartered Accountants
B. L. Taparia
M. P. Taparia
S. J. Taparia
V. K. Taparia
FRN Œ 301051E
Chairman
Managing Director
Executive Director
Executive Director
(DIN No. 00112438)
(DIN No. 00112461)
(DIN No. 00112513)
(DIN No. 00112567)
R. M. Pandia
Ameeta Parpia
R. Kannan
Sarthak Behuria
A.M. Hariharan
Director
Director
Director
Director
Partner
(DIN No. 00021730)
(DIN No. 02654277)
(DIN No. 00380328)
(DIN No. 03290288)
P. C. Somani
R. J. Saboo
Mumbai, 29
th
 April, 2022
Chief Financial Officer
VP (Corporate Affairs) & Company Secretary
147
As per our attached report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For 
LODHA & COMPANY
Chartered Accountants
B. L. Taparia
M. P. Taparia
S. J. Taparia
V. K. Taparia
FRN Œ 301051E
Chairman
Managing Director
Executive Director
Executive Director
(DIN No. 00112438)
(DIN No. 00112461)
(DIN No. 00112513)
(DIN No. 00112567)
R. M. Pandia
Ameeta Parpia
R. Kannan
Sarthak Behuria
A.M. Hariharan
Director
Director
Director
Director
Partner
(DIN No. 00021730)
(DIN No. 02654277)
(DIN No. 00380328)
(DIN No. 03290288)
P. C. Somani
R. J. Saboo
Mumbai, 29
th
 April, 2022
Chief Financial Officer
VP (Corporate Affairs) & Company Secretary
I
 in Crores
PARTICULARS
Note
2021 Œ 2022
2020 Œ 2021
INCOME
Revenue from operations
24
7772.82
6355.20
Other income
25
19.95
7792.77
16.89
6372.09
EXPENDITURE
Cost of materials consumed
26
5428.93
3763.54
Purchase of stock-in-trade
136.51
128.61
Changes in inventories of finished goods, Semi finished goods and 
stock-in-trade
27
 (212.27)
150.53
Employee benefits expenses
28
345.28
310.36
Finance costs
29
5.15
22.05
Depreciation and amortisation expense
2, 4, 5
229.52
212.79
Other expenses
30
832.26
6765.38
717.98
5305.86
PROFIT BEFORE SHARE OF PROFIT OF AN ASSOCIATE
1027.39
1066.23
Share of profit of associates
204.39
145.99
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
1231.78
1212.22
TAX EXPENSES
Current tax
264.81
274.72
Deferred tax (credit)/charge
 (1.48)
263.33
 (40.64)
234.08
PROFIT AFTER TAX
968.45
978.14
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Re-measurement of defined employee benefit plans
 (1.50)
 (1.99)
Income tax relating to Re-measurement of defined employee 
benefit plans
0.31
 (1.19)
0.44
 (1.55)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
967.26
976.59
EARNINGS PER SHARE
33
Basic & diluted earning per share (In 
R
)
76.24
77.00
(Face value of 
R
 2 each)
Significant Accounting Policies
1
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated 

financial statements
Statement of Consolidated Profit and Loss for the year ended on 31
st
 March, 2022
148
As per our attached report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For 
LODHA & COMPANY
Chartered Accountants
B. L. Taparia
M. P. Taparia
S. J. Taparia
V. K. Taparia
FRN Œ 301051E
Chairman
Managing Director
Executive Director
Executive Director
(DIN No. 00112438)
(DIN No. 00112461)
(DIN No. 00112513)
(DIN No. 00112567)
R. M. Pandia
Ameeta Parpia
R. Kannan
Sarthak Behuria
A.M. Hariharan
Director
Director
Director
Director
Partner
(DIN No. 00021730)
(DIN No. 02654277)
(DIN No. 00380328)
(DIN No. 03290288)
P. C. Somani
R. J. Saboo
Mumbai, 29
th
 April, 2022
Chief Financial Officer
VP (Corporate Affairs) & Company Secretary
I
 in Crores
PARTICULARS
2021 Œ 2022
2020 Œ 2021
A.
 
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net profit before tax
1231.78 
1212.22 
Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to cashflows :

Depreciation and amortisation expense
229.52 
213.03 
Interest expenses
5.06 
21.97 
Provision for doubtful debts/Bad debts
0.04 
1.46 
Foreign currency exchange fluctuation
16.50 
2.05 
Share of profit in partnership firm
(0.28)
(0.10)
Share of net (profit)/loss of associates 
(204.14)
(145.74)
Interest income
(0.92)
(0.85)
Excess liabilities written back
(8.30)
(7.49)
(Profit)/Loss on sale of liquid mutual funds
(9.37)
(9.37)
(Profit) /Loss on sale of property, plant & equipments
(2.98)
(3.85)
(Profit) /Loss on sale of investments
(5.40)
 -   
Fair value adjustments
(0.42)
19.31 
(0.30)
70.81 
Operating profit before working capital changes
1251.09 
1283.03 
Adjustments for :
Change in working capital
(Increase)/decrease in inventories
(499.40)
129.80 
(Increase)/decrease in trade receivable
(76.95)
(78.89)
(Increase)/decrease in other assets
(26.83)
(29.92)
Increase/(decrease) in trade payables
142.14 
103.99 
Increase/(decrease) in other liabilities
(32.87)
(493.91)
70.52 
195.50 
Cash generated from operations
757.18 
1478.53 
Direct taxes paid (net of refund)
(286.75)
(232.17)
NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES ( A )
470.43 
1246.36 
B. 
 
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Purchase of property, plant & equipment
(469.94)
(226.60)
Sale of property, plant & equipment
3.89 
5.59 
Purchase of non-current investments
 -   
(0.03)
Proceeds from sale of non-current investments
5.42 
-
Purchase of liquid mutual funds
(2265.54)
(2069.04)
Sale of liquid mutual funds
2274.01 
2077.04 
Interest received
0.92 
0.85 
Dividend received from an associate
47.75 
11.57 
NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES ( B )
(403.49)
(200.62)
C. 
 
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES

Repayment of long term borrowings
(0.70)
(0.35)
Increase/(Decrease) in short term borrowings
(0.35)
(410.06)
Interest paid
(1.00)
(16.58)
Payment of lease liabilities
(16.08)
(15.00)
Dividend & corporate dividend tax paid
(292.18)
(63.51)
NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES ( C )
(310.31)
(505.50)
NET INCREASE / (DECREASE) IN CASH & CASH 
EQUIVALENTS (A+B+C)
(243.37)
540.24 
Opening balance at beginning of the year
761.51 
219.89 
Effect of fair value of Liquid mutual funds
0.90 
1.38 
Closing  balance at end of the year
519.04 
761.51 
Significant Accounting Policies
1
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the 
Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated 
Cash Flow Statement for the year ended on 31
st
 March, 2022
149
As per our attached report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For 
LODHA & COMPANY
Chartered Accountants
B. L. Taparia
M. P. Taparia
S. J. Taparia
V. K. Taparia
FRN Œ 301051E
Chairman
Managing Director
Executive Director
Executive Director
(DIN No. 00112438)
(DIN No. 00112461)
(DIN No. 00112513)
(DIN No. 00112567)
R. M. Pandia
Ameeta Parpia
R. Kannan
Sarthak Behuria
A.M. Hariharan
Director
Director
Director
Director
Partner
(DIN No. 00021730)
(DIN No. 02654277)
(DIN No. 00380328)
(DIN No. 03290288)
P. C. Somani
R. J. Saboo
Mumbai, 29
th
 April, 2022
Chief Financial Officer
VP (Corporate Affairs) & Company Secretary
v
 In Crores
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL :
Paid up capital 
 
(Refer Note 15)
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
25.41
Changes in equity share capital during the year
 - 
Changes in Equity Share Capital due to prior period errors
 - 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
25.41
Changes in equity share capital during the year
 - 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
25.41
OTHER EQUITY :
Reserves and Surplus
Accumulated Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Particulars
Capital 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Foreign 
exchange 
translation 
reserve
Actuarial 
gains/
(losses)
Total
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
2.49
47.49
2.22
2194.05
 -   
0.91
(11.38)
2235.78 
Profit for the year
978.14
978.14 
Adjustment in respect of associate - 
Share in equity related cost, Dividend 
distribution tax and Others
(4.53)
(4.53)
Recognised during the year
(0.54)
(0.54)
Remeasurements of net defined benefit 
plans (Net of Taxes)
(1.55)
(1.55)
Interim dividend paid for FY 2020-21
(63.50)
(63.50)
Transfer to general reserve
(698.68)
(698.68)
Transfer from Statement of profit & loss
698.68
698.68 
Changes in accounting policies or prior 

period errors
 -   
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
2.49
47.49
2.22
2888.20
215.96
0.37
(12.93)
3143.80
Profit for the year
968.45
 968.45 
Recognised during the year
0.07
 0.07 
Remeasurements of net defined benefit 
plans (Net of Taxes)
(1.19)
 (1.19)
Final dividend paid for FY 2020-21
(215.96)
 (215.96)
Interim dividend paid for FY 2021-22
(76.22)
 (76.22)
Transfer to general reserve
(663.58)
 (663.58)
Transfer from Statement of profit & loss
663.58 
 663.58 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
2.49
47.49
2.22
3551.78
228.65
0.44
 (14.12)
3818.95
Significant Accounting Policies
1
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022
150
1.
 
BASIS OF PREPARATION, MEASUREMENT AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1.1
 
GROUP OVERVIEW:
 
The consolidated financial statements comprise financial statements of Supreme Industries Limited, Parent Company, its 
subsidiary and associate (hereinafter referred as ﬁthe Groupﬂ).
 
The Supreme Industries Limited (ﬁthe Parent Companyﬂ) is public limited company incorporated and domiciled in India and 
has registered office at 612, Raheja Chambers, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021. It is incorporated under the Indian Companies 
Act, 1913 and its shares are listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange Limited and National Stock Exchange in India.
 
The Group is one of the leading plastic products manufacturing company in India having 25 manufacturing facilities spread 
across 
the country, offering a wide and comprehensive range of plastic products in India. The company operates in various product 
categories viz. Plastic Piping System, Cross Laminated Films & Products, Protective Packaging Products, Industrial Moulded 
Components, Moulded Furniture, Storage & Material Handling Products, Performance Packaging Films and Composite LPG 
Cylinders.
 
Group Sturcture:
Name of Company
Country of 

incorporation
Shareholding as at
As at 31st March, 2022
As at 31st March, 2021
Subsidiary
The Supreme industries Overseas (FZE)
UAE
100%
100%
Associate:
Supreme Petrochem Limited
India
30.78%
30.78%
1.2
 
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND MEASUREMENT
 
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (hereinafter 
referred to as the ‚Ind AS™) as notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting standards) Rules, 2015 and Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Amendments Rules 2016 prescribed under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013.
 
The consolidated financial statements of the Group are prepared and presented on accrual basis and under the historical cost 
convention, except for the following material items that have been measured at fair value as required by the relevant Ind AS:





 
These consolidated financial statements are approved for issue by the Company™s Board of Directors on 29
th
 April, 2022.
1.3
 
USE OF ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
 
The preparation of the financial statements requires that the Management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent liabilities as at the date of the financial statements and 
the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. The recognition, measurement, classification or 
disclosure of an item or information in the financial statements is made relying on these estimates.
 
The estimates and judgements used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are continuously evaluated 
by the Group and are based on historical experience and various other assumptions and factors (including expectations of 

future events) that the Group believes to be reasonable under the existing circumstances. Actual results could differ from those 

estimates. Any revision to accounting estimates is recognised prospectively in current and future periods.
 
All the assets and liabilities have been classified as current or non-current as per the group™s normal operating cycle of twelve 
months and other criteria set out in Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013.
 
Areas involving critical estimates and Judgements are:
 
- 
 
Estimation of employee defined benefit obligations
 
- 
 
Estimation of current tax expenses
 
- 
 
Estimation of provisions and contingent liabilities
 
1.4
 
BASIS OF PREPARATION OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and associates as 
at 31 March 2022. The Parent Company prepares and report its consolidated financial statements in INR (
R
).
 
Subsidiaries:
 
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the group has control. Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to 
variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the 
investee. Specifically, the Group controls an investee if and only if the Group has:
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022
151
 
- 
 
Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee)
 
- 
 
Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and
 
- 
 
The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns
 
The group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or 
more of the three elements of controls. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the group obtains control over the subsidiary 
and ceases when the group losses control of the subsidiary.
 
 
Consolidation procedure:
 
Subsidiaries:
 
a) 
 
Combine, on line by line basis like items of assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows of the parent with 

those of its subsidiaries. For this purpose, income and expenses of the subsidiary are based on the amounts of the assets 
and liabilities recognised in the consolidated financial statements at the acquisition date.
 
b) 
 
Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the parent™s investment in each subsidiary and the parent™s portion of equity of 
each subsidiary. Business combinations policy explains how to account for any related goodwill.
 
c) 
 
Eliminate in full intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between 

entities of the group (profits or losses resulting from intragroup transactions that are recognised in assets, such as 
inventory 

and fixed assets, are eliminated in full). Intragroup losses may indicate an impairment that requires recognition in the 
consolidated financial statements. Ind AS12 Income Taxes applies to temporary differences that arise from the elimination 
of profits and losses resulting from intragroup transactions.
 
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the 
non-controlling interests. Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the 
non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
 
Consolidated financial statements are prepared using uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other events in 
similar circumstances. If a member of the group uses accounting policies other than those adopted in the consolidated financial 

statements for like transactions and events in similar circumstances, appropriate adjustments are made to that group member™s 
financial statements in preparing the consolidated financial statements to ensure conformity with the group™s accounting 

policies.
 
The financial statements of all entities used for the purpose of consolidation are drawn up to same reporting date as that of 
the parent company, i.e., year ended on 31 March. When the end of the reporting period of the parent is different from that 

of a subsidiary, the subsidiary prepares, for consolidation purposes, additional financial information as of the same date as the 

financial statements of the parent to enable the parent to consolidate the financial information of the subsidiary, unless it is 
impracticable to do so.
 
1.5
 
GOODWILL
 
Goodwill arising on an acquisition of a business is initially recognized at cost at the date of acquisition. After initial recognition, 
goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any.
 
1.6
 
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES
 
Associates are all entities over which the group has significant influences but not control or joint control. This is generally the 
case where the group holds between 20% to 50% of the voting rights or the group has power to participate in the financial and 

operating policy decision of the investee. Investments in associate are accounted for using equity method accounting.
 
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using the equity 
method of accounting, except when the investment, or a portion thereof, is classified as held for sale, in which case it is 
accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 105.
 
Under the equity method, an investment in an associate is initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost and 
adjusted thereafter to recognise the Group™s share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the associate.
 
On acquisition of the investment in an associate, any excess of the cost of the investment over the Group™s share of the net fair 
value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the investee is recognised as goodwill, which is included within the carrying 

amount of the investment. Any excess of the Group™s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities over 

the cost of the investment, after reassessment, is recognised directly in equity as capital reserve in the period in which the 
investment is acquired.
 
Distributions received from an associate reduce the carrying amount of the investment. Unrealised gains on transactions 
between the group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the group™s interest in these entities. 
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transactions provides evidence of an impairment of the assets transferred.
 
When the Group™s share of losses of an associate exceeds the Group™s interest in that associate (which includes any long-term 
interests that, in substance, form part of the Group™s net investment in the associate), the Group discontinues recognising its 
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022
152
share of further losses. Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive 
obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
 
 
Change in Ownership Interest:
 
When the Group ceases to consolidate or equity account for an investment because of a loss of control or significant influence, 
any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value with the change in carrying amount recognized in profit or loss. 
This fair value becomes the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequent accounting for the retained interest as an 
associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income in 

respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean 
that amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. If the ownership interest 
in an associate is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts previously recognized 

in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
 
1.7
 
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS
 
In preparing the financial statements of each individual group entity, transactions in currencies other than the entity™s functional 
currency (foreign currencies) are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end of 
each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. 
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing 
at 

the date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign 
currency are not retranslated.
 
Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise except for:

planned nor likely to occur (therefore forming part of the net investment in the foreign operation), which are recognised initially 

in other comprehensive income and reclassified from equity to profit or loss on repayment of the monetary items.
 
 
For the purposes of presenting these consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group™s foreign operations 
are translated into Indian Rupees using exchange rates prevailing at the end of each reporting period. Income and expense 
items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, 
in which case the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions are used.
 
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity (and attributed 
to non-controlling interests as appropriate).
 
On disposal of foreign operations (i.e. a disposal of the Group™s entire interest in a foreign operation, a disposal involving 
loss of control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, or a partial disposal of an interest in a joint arrangement or 
an associate that includes a foreign operation of which the retained interest becomes a financial asset), all of the exchange 
differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation attributable to the owners of the Group are reclassified to profit 
or loss.
 
In addition, in relation to a partial disposal of a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation that does not result in the Group 
losing control over the subsidiary, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are re-attributed to non-
controlling interests and are not recognised in profit or loss. For all other partial disposals (i.e. partial disposals of associates or 
joint arrangements that do not result in the Group losing significant influence or joint control), the proportionate share of the 

accumulated exchange differences is reclassified to profit or loss.
 
1.8
 
SEGMENT REPORTING
 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to Chief Operating Decision 
Maker (CODM).
 
The Group has identified its Managing Director as CODM which assesses the operational performance and position of the 
Group and makes strategic decisions.
1.9
 
For other accounting policies - Refer significant accounting policies mentioned in the standalone financial statements.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2022
153
2
 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Freehold 
Land
Buildings
Plant and 
Equipment
Moulds 
and Dies
Furniture 
and 
Fixtures
Vehicles
Office 
Equipment
Total
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2021
75.70
763.15
1815.47
507.24
37.20
5.19
41.53
3245.48
Additions
0.35
56.41
152.56
42.16
1.59
0.24
4.88
258.19
Deductions/ Adjustment
-
0.72
10.53
1.28
0.02
0.67
2.25
15.47
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
76.05
818.84
1957.50
548.12
38.77
4.76
44.16
3488.20
Accumulated Depreciation
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2021
 - 
204.38
979.33
365.82
23.56
3.51
32.72
1609.32
Additions
 - 
26.67
132.76
43.25
2.40
0.84
5.41
211.33
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
0.27
10.18
1.18
0.01
0.67
2.25
14.56
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
-
230.78
1101.91
407.89
25.95
3.68
35.88
1806.09
Net carrying amount as at 1
st
 April, 2021
75.70
558.77
836.14
141.42
13.64
1.68
8.81
1636.16
Net carrying amount as at 31
st
 March, 2022
76.05
588.06
855.59
140.23
12.82
1.08
8.28
1682.11
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
69.28
691.08
1667.77
448.67
35.99
5.84
42.31
2960.94
Additions
6.42
73.00
155.25
58.74
1.78
0.41
4.01
299.61
Deductions/ Adjustment
-
0.93
7.55
0.17
0.57
1.06
4.79
15.07
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
75.70
763.15
1815.47
507.24
37.20
5.19
41.53
3245.48
Accumulated Depreciation
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
 - 
 179.71 
 864.78 
 326.12 
 21.81 
 4.14 
 31.24 
1427.80
Additions
 - 
 25.17 
 121.35 
 39.80 
 2.29 
 0.40 
 5.84 
194.85
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
 0.50 
 6.80 
 0.10 
 0.54 
 1.03 
 4.36 
13.33
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
 - 
 204.38 
 979.33 
 365.82 
 23.56 
 3.51 
 32.72 
1609.32
Net carrying amount as at 1
st
 April, 2020
69.28
511.37
802.99
122.55
14.18
1.70
11.07
1533.14
Net carrying amount as at 31
st
 March, 2021
75.70
558.77
836.14
141.42
13.64
1.68
8.81
1636.16
 
NOTES
 
1. 
 
Leasehold land under varying lease arrangement for period ranging from 30-99 years.
 
2. 
 
Title deeds of Immovable Properties not held in name of the Company are:
Balances 
As at
Relevant 
line item in 
the Balance 
sheet
 
Description 
of item of 
property 
 Gross 
carrying 
value 
 Title deeds 
held in the 
name of 
 Whether title 
deed holder 
is promoter 
or director 
 Property 
held since 
which date 
 Reason for not being held in 
the name of the company 
31
st
 
March, 
2022
Property, 
plant & 
equipment
Free Hold 
Land 
 0.05 
 Shivratan Jitmal 

Taparia 
 Executive 

Direcror 
27
th
 
March, 
1987
The Company has obtained 
deed of declaration from the 
directors, mentioning they have 
no right on these properties.
Further due to some 
procedural/technical issue 
the properties are  still not 

transferred in the name of the 
company.
31
st
 
March, 
2022
Property, 
plant & 
equipment
Free Hold 
Land 
 0.38 
 Mahavir Prasad 

Taparia 
 Managing 

Director 
17
th 
December, 

2004
154
3
 
CAPITAL WORK-IN-PROGRESS
 As at 
 
31
st
 March, 2022 
 As at 
 
31
st
 March, 2021
Buildings
38.48
14.83
Plant and equipment
99.88
20.73
Moulds & dies
9.39
8.35
Other assets
0.23
0.02
Project expenses pending capitalisation (include depreciation and amortisation of 
 
R
 0.01 Crores (Previous year 
R
 0.70 Crores))
6.61
5.69
TOTAL CAPITAL WORK-IN-PROGRESS
154.59
49.62
CAPITAL WORK-IN-PROGRESS AGEING SCHEDULE
 Particulars 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Total
As at 31
st
 March, 2022 
Projects in progress
 145.03 
 9.56 
 - 
 - 
 154.59 
Projects temporarily suspended 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 145.03 
 9.56 
 - 
 - 
 154.59 
As at 31
st
 March, 2021 
Projects in progress
 49.62 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 49.62 
Projects temporarily suspended 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 49.62 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 49.62 
4
 
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 Computer software 
 Know how,
 
Right to use & Patents 
 Total 
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2021
18.33
25.76
44.09
Additions
0.56
 -   
0.56
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
18.89
25.76
44.65
Accumulated Depreciation
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2021
12.44
20.69
33.13
Additions
2.92
2.16
5.08
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
 - 
-
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
15.36
22.85
38.21
Net carrying amount as at 1
st
 April, 2021
5.89
5.07
10.96
Net carrying amount as at 31
st
 March, 2022
3.53
2.91
6.44
Gross carrying amount

Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
18.24
25.69
43.93
Additions
0.09
0.07
0.16
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
18.33
25.76
44.09
Accumulated Depreciation

Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
9.52
18.39
27.91
Additions
2.92
2.19
5.11
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
-0.11
-0.11
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
12.44
20.69
33.13
Net carrying amount as at 1
st
 April, 2020
8.72
7.30
16.02
Net carrying amount as at 31
st
 March, 2021
5.89
5.07
10.96
   
155
4A
 
 INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT
 As at 
 
31
st
 March, 2022 
 As at 
 
31
st
 March, 2021
Computer software / licences
 - 
0.22
Know how, Right to use & Patents
1.18
1.18
TOTAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT
1.18
1.40
INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE
 Particulars 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Total
As at 31
st
 March, 2022 
Projects in progress
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.18 
 1.18 
Projects temporarily suspended 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.18 
 1.18 
As at 31
st
 March, 2021 
Projects in progress
0.22
 - 
 - 
1.18
 1.40 
Projects temporarily suspended 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total 
0.22
 - 
 - 
1.18
 1.40 
5
 
RIGHT TO USE - LEASE
 Right to use 
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2021
92.61
Additions
25.08
Deductions/ Adjustment
-
Amortisation
0.39
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
117.30
Accumulated Depreciation

Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2021
25.45
Additions
13.12
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2022
38.57
Net carrying amount as at 1
st
 April, 2021
67.16
Net carrying amount as at 31
st
 March, 2022
78.73
Gross carrying amount

Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
 71.21 
Additions
 21.64 
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
Amortisation
 0.24 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
 92.61 
Accumulated Depreciation

Balance as at 1
st
 April, 2020
12.63
Additions
12.82
Deductions/ Adjustment
 - 
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
25.45
Net carrying amount as at 1
st
 April, 2020
58.58
Net carrying amount as at 31
st
 March, 2021
67.16
156
6
 
NON CURRENT INVESTMENTS
Quantity (in Nos)
Amount
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
 
EQUITY SHARES FULLY PAID UP
 
A. 
 
INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE & SUBSIDIARY
QUOTED (At Cost)
Supreme Petrochem Ltd. (an associate Company - 30.78% 
equity stake held [Previous year 30.78%]) [Face value @ 
R
 4 
each (Previous year @ 
R
 10 each)]
28936400
28936400
 10.99 
 28.35 
Pursuant to NCLT order dated 10
th
 March, 2022, The 
associates has reduced its face value of shares from 
R
 10 
each to 
R
 4 each. Amount Receivable 
R
 17.36 crores 
 
(Refer Note 9) has since been received.
Goodwill on acquisition 
 5.03 
 5.03 
Accumulated share in profit at the beginning of the year
 297.81 
 168.64 
Share in profit - current year 
 204.13 
 146.96 
Share in other comprehensive income
 (0.25)
 (0.25)
Dividend received during the year including share of 
dividend distribution tax
 (47.75)
 (11.57)
Adjustments for unrealised profit on stock in hand
 0.26 
 (0.97)
Impact on account of Buy Back of shares
 - 
 (4.98)
Others
 - 
 (0.02)
TOTAL INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES
470.22
331.19
 
B.
 
OTHER INVESTMENTS
QUOTED (Fair value through Profit & Loss Account)
Bank of Baroda
1286
1286
 0.01 
 0.01 
Central Bank of India
5874
5874
 0.01 
 0.01 
Unimers India Ltd.
37
37
 - 
 - 
UNQUOTED (Fair value through Profit & Loss Account)

Saraswat Co-op. Bank Ltd.
1000
1000
 - 
 - 
Windage Power Company Private Ltd.*
54550
73450
 0.05 
 0.07 
Nu Power Wind Farms Limited*
10378
4769
 0.01 
 - 
INVESTMENT IN PARTNERSHIP

HPC Research s.r.o. (LLC)**
 5.59 
 5.31 
TOTAL OTHER INVESTMENTS
5.67
5.40
TOTAL NON CURRENT INVESTMENTS [A+B]
475.89
336.59
*Lying in escrow account
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
2675.63
1210.28
Aggregate carrying value of unquoted investments
5.65
5.38
Aggregate carrying value of quoted investments
470.24
331.21
** Name of Partners and shares
1. Special engineering s.r.o. (45%)
2. Andriy Zakharchuk (45%)

3. The Supreme Industries Limited (10%)
157
7
 
DEPOSITS
Non-Current
Current
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
 
Sundry deposits considered good - Unsecured
 22.41 
 20.19 
 1.94 
 4.92 
 
Sundry Deposits - credit impaired
 - 
 0.05 
 - 
 - 
 22.41 
 20.24 
 1.94 
 4.92 
 
Less: Provision for doubtful Sundry Deposits
 - 
 0.05 
 - 
 - 
 
TOTAL DEPOSITS
 22.41 
 20.19 
 1.94 
 4.92 
8
 
LOANS
Non-Current
Current
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
 
Loans to employees considered good - Unsecured
 1.17 
 1.08 
 4.04 
 1.65 
 
Loans to employees - credit impaired
 0.04 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 1.21 
 1.12 
 4.04 
 1.65 
 
Less: Provision for doubtful Loans to employees
 0.04 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 
TOTAL LOANS
 1.17 
 1.08 
 4.04 
 1.65 
9
 
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
Non-Current
Current
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
 
Interest accrued and due on fixed deposits
 - 
 - 
0.35 
0.54 
 
Share application money towards 682927 equits shares of 
Belenus Solar Pvt Ltd. - Since allotted
 - 
 - 
1.12 
 - 
 
Amount receivable from Associate towards its capital 
reduction-Since received (Refer Note 6)
 - 
 - 
17.36 
 - 
 
TOTAL OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
 - 
 - 
18.83 
0.54 
10
 
OTHER ASSETS
 
(Unsecured - Considered good)
Non-Current
Current
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
 
Capital advances
42.12 
19.02 
 - 
 - 
 
Advance to Suppliers
 - 
 - 
54.83 
43.62 
 
Advances/claims recoverable
 - 
0.37 
22.18 
21.30 
 
Prepaid expenses
1.31 
1.17 
11.31 
10.59 
 
Refunds due/balances from/with government authorities
54.62 
72.58 
93.38 
64.30 
 
TOTAL OTHER ASSETS
98.05 
93.14 
181.70 
139.81 
11
 
INVENTORIES
 
(Cost or Net realisable value whichever is lower)
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
 
Raw materials and components [including goods in transit 
R
 70.13 crores (As at 31
st
 March, 
2021 - 
R
 27.77 crores)]
632.44 
345.37 
 
Finished goods [(including goods in transit 
R
 5.53 crores (As at 31
st
 March, 2021 - 
R
 0.08 
crores)]
511.50 
319.60 
 
Semi-finished goods
74.34 
54.00 
 
Stock-in-trade
6.52 
6.49 
 
Stores, spare parts, and consumables
21.89 
21.31 
 
Packing materials
13.47 
13.99 
 
TOTAL INVENTORIES
1260.16 
760.76 
158
 
Note:
 Write down of Inventories to Net Realisable Value by 
R
 2.71 crores (Previous year 
R
 2.90 crores) based on management 
inventory policy for Non & slow moving inventory. The same has been recognised as an expense during the year and included 
in the ﬁChanges in value of Inventory of ﬁsemi finished goodsﬂand ﬁfinished goodsﬂ in the statement of Profit and Loss.
12
 
TRADE RECEIVABLES
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
 
Trade Receivables considered good - Unsecured
465.68 
388.71 
 
Trade Receivables which have significant increase in Credit Risk
3.17 
3.54 
 
Trade Receivables - credit impaired
4.44 
4.42 
473.29 
396.67 
 
Less: Provision for doubtful trade receivables
6.48 
6.77 
 
TOTAL TRADE RECEIVABLES
466.81 
389.90 
TRADE RECEIVABLES AGEING SCHEDULE:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date 
 
of payment
Not Due/
Unbilled
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
Total
As at 31
st
 March, 2022
i) 
 
Undisputed Trade receivables Œ considered good
 375.81 
 84.11 
 4.08 
 0.42 
 0.26 
 0.23 
 464.91 
ii) 
 
Undisputed Trade Receivables Œ which have 
significant increase in credit Risk
 - 
 0.01 
 2.26 
 0.66 
 0.09 
 0.15 
 3.17 
iii) 
 
Undisputed Trade Receivables Œ credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv) 
 
Disputed Trade receivables Œ considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.77 
 - 
 - 
 0.77 
v) 
 
Disputed Trade Receivables Œ which have 
significant increase in credit Risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
vi) 
 
Disputed Trade Receivables Œ credit impaired
 - 
0.17
0.60
1.20
 0.19 
 2.28 
 4.44 
Subtotal
 375.81 
84.29
6.94
3.05
 0.54 
 2.66 
 473.29 
Less: Provision for doubtful trade receivables
0.23
3.05
 0.54 
 2.66 
 6.48 
Total
 375.81 
84.29
6.71
 - 
 - 
 - 
 466.81 
As at 31
st
 March, 2021
i) 
 
Undisputed Trade receivables Œ considered good
 313.84 
 70.15 
 1.94 
 2.10 
 0.68 
 - 
 388.71 
ii) 
 
Undisputed Trade Receivables Œ which have 

significant increase in credit Risk
 1.21 
 - 
 1.53 
 0.58 
 0.16 
 0.06 
 3.54 
iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables Œ credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv) 
 
Disputed Trade receivables Œ considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
v) 
 
Disputed Trade Receivables Œ which have 

significant increase in credit Risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
vi) 
 
Disputed Trade Receivables Œ credit impaired
 - 
 0.14 
 0.42 
 1.39 
 0.05 
 2.42 
 4.42 
Subtotal
 315.05 
 70.29 
 3.89 
 4.07 
 0.89 
 2.48 
 396.67 
Less: Provision for doubtful trade receivables
 3.40 
 0.89 
 2.48 
 6.77 
Total
 315.05 
 70.29 
 3.89 
 0.67 
 - 
 - 
 389.90 
13
 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
 
Balance with banks in current and cash credit accounts
92.66 
96.72 
 
Cash on hand
0.23 
0.28 
 
Investment in liquid mutual funds/deposits*
426.15 
664.51 
519.04 
761.51 
159
 
*Investment in Liquid Mutual funds/deposits includes:
 
Scheme Name
Units (in Nos.)
 
as at
 
31-Mar-22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
 
A. 
 
Liquid Mutual funds
  
ABSL Liquid Fund-Direct
1314684 
45.11 
71.68 
  
ABSL Liquid Fund-Regular
441955 
15.05 
 - 
  
Axis Liquid Fund-Direct
254624 
60.19 
50.24 
  
BNP Paribas Liquid Fund-Direct
37066 
9.09 
39.03 
  
HDFC Liquid Fund-Direct
155688 
65.15 
63.69 
  
ICICI Pru Liquid Fund-Direct
1907014 
60.12 
35.08 
  
Kotak Liquid Fund-Direct
142019 
61.11 
48.57 
  
SBI Liquid Fund-Direct
120211 
40.07 
62.18 
  
SBI Liquid Fund-Regular
75833 
25.11 
 - 
  
Tata Liquid Fund-Direct
134357 
45.15 
56.53 
  
HDFC Liquid Fund-Regular
  
 - 
13.06 
  
HSBC Liquid Fund-Direct
 - 
20.14 
  
ICICI Pru Liquid Fund-Regular
 - 
10.02 
  
IDFC Liquid Fund-Direct
 - 
19.05 
  
LIC MF Liquid Fund-Direct
 - 
40.11 
  
Kotak Liquid Fund-Regular
 - 
10.01 
  
Nippon India Liquid Fund-Direct
 - 
75.08 
  
UTI Liquid Fund-Direct
 - 
25.04 
  
Total [A]
426.15 
639.51 
 
B. 
 
Deposits
  
HDFC Ltd.
 - 
25.00 
  
Total [B]
-
25.00 
  
Total [A+B]
426.15 
664.51 
14
 
OTHER BANK BALANCES
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
Deposit with banks (Earmarked for electricity/sales tax/margin money)
2.12 
1.96
Unclaimed dividend
5.24 
4.92 
TOTAL OTHER BANK BALANCES
7.36 
6.88 
15
 
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
AUTHORISED
15,00,00,000 Nos. Equity Shares of 
R
 2 each
30.00
30.00
1,12,00,000 Nos. Preference Shares of 
R
 10 each
11.20
11.20
3,38,00,000 Nos. Unclassified Shares of 
R
 10 each
33.80
33.80
75.00
75.00
ISSUED, SUBSCRIBED AND PAID UP

12,70,26,870 Nos. Equity Shares of 
R
 2 each Fully Paid Up
25.41
25.41
TOTAL SHARE CAPITAL
25.41
25.41
(a)
The reconciliation of the number of equity shares 
outstanding
As at 31-Mar-22
As at 31-Mar-21
Numbers
Amount
Numbers
Amount
Equity Shares at the beginning of the year
127026870
25.41
127026870
25.41
Equity Shares at the end of the year
127026870
25.41
127026870
25.41
160
 
(b)
 
Terms/rights attached to Equity shares :
  
The Company has only one class of issued Equity Shares having a par value of 
R
 2 per share. Each Shareholder is eligible 
for one vote per share held.
  
In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are eligible to receive the residual assets of the Company after 
distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding.
 
(c)
 
The details of Shareholders holding more than 5% shares:
Name of the Shareholders
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
No. of Equity 
Shares
% of Holding
No. of Equity 
Shares
% of Holding
Boon Investment and Trading Company Pvt Ltd
20457956
16.11%
20457956
16.11%
Jovial Investment and Trading Company Pvt Ltd
20478638
16.12%
20478638
16.12%
Venkatesh Investment and Trading Company Pvt Ltd
18041229
14.20%
18041229
14.20%
 
(d)
 
The details of Shares held by promoters at the end of the year
Promoter name
2021-22
2020-21
No. of 
Equity 
Shares
Equity 
Shares 
%
% Change 
during 
the year
No. of 
Equity 
Shares
Equity 
Shares %
% Change 
during 
the year
Boon Investment and Trading Company Pvt Ltd
20457956
16.11%
 - 
20457956
16.11%
 - 
Jovial Investment and Trading Company Pvt Ltd
20478638
16.12%
 - 
20478638
16.12%
 - 
Venkatesh Investment and Trading Company 

Pvt Ltd
18041229
14.20%
 - 
18041229
14.20%
 - 
Platinum Plastic And Industries Private Limited
49100
0.04%
 - 
49100
0.04%
 - 
Suraj Packaging Private Limited
6300
0.00%
 - 
6300
0.00%
 - 
Space Age Chemplast Pvt Ltd
30000
0.02%
 - 
30000
0.02%
 - 
Mahaveer Prasad Taparia
749186
0.59%
 - 
749186
0.59%
 - 
Shri Bajranglal Taparia
317398
0.25%
 - 
317398
0.25%
 - 
Shivratan Taparia
703816
0.55%
 - 
703816
0.55%
 - 
Vijay Kumar Taparia
244890
0.19%
 - 
244890
0.19%
 - 
Kamleshdevi Taparia
302830
0.24%
 - 
302830
0.24%
 - 
Kusumdevi Taparia
98690
0.08%
 - 
98690
0.08%
 - 
Vivek Kumar Taparia
162230
0.13%
 - 
162230
0.13%
 - 
Priyanka Devi Taparia
141500
0.11%
 - 
141500
0.11%
 - 
Anika Vivekkumar Taparia
20000
0.02%
 - 
20000
0.02%
 - 
Viren Vivek Taparia
200050
0.16%
 - 
200050
0.16%
 - 
Akshay Vivekkumar Taparia
50000
0.04%
 - 
50000
0.04%
 - 
Total
62053813
48.85%
 - 
62053813
48.85%
 - 
 
(e)
 
In the Period of five years immediately preceding March, 2022:
  
The Company has not alloted any equity shares as fully paid up without payment being received in cash or as Bonus Shares 
or Bought back any equity shares.
 
16
 
OTHER EQUITY
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
Capital reserve
2.49 
2.49 
Securities premium
47.49 
47.49 
Capital redemption reserve
2.22 
2.22 
Foreign exchange translation reserve
0.44 
0.37 
General reserve
3551.78 
2888.20 
Retained earnings
228.65 
215.96 
Accumulated other comprehensive income
(14.12)
(12.93)
3818.95 
3143.80 
161
 
Nature & Purpose of the Reserve:
 
Capital reserve:
 Capital reserve represents the capital subsidy received by the Company. The reserve will be utilised in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act.
 
Securities premium:
 Securities premium is credited when shares are issued at premium. This will be 
 
utilised in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act.
 
Capital redemption reserve:
 Capital redemption reserve is being created by transfer from Retained earnings 
 
at the time of buy 
back of equity shares in accordance with the Act. The reserve will be utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
 
General reserve:
 The General reserve is created by way of transfer of profits from retained earnings for appropriation purposes. 
This reserve is utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
 
Retained earnings: 
Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date, less any transfers to general reserve, 
dividends or other distributions paid to shareholders.
17
 
BORROWINGS
Non-Current
Current
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
 
UNSECURED
 
Deferred payment liabilities (under sales tax deferral scheme)
 - 
0.61 
 - 
 0.35 
 
TOTAL BORROWINGS
 - 
0.61 
 - 
 0.35 
18
 
DEPOSITS
Non-Current
Current
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
 
Trade / security deposits
4.03 
4.30 
1.68 
0.87 
 
TOTAL DEPOSITS
4.03 
4.30 
1.68 
0.87 
19
 
PROVISIONS
Non-Current
Current
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
31-Mar-22
31-Mar-21
 
Provision for employee benefits:
 
Compensated absences
24.39 
22.42 
7.60 
6.79 
 
Gratuity
 - 
 - 
 - 
0.62 
 
TOTAL PROVISIONS
24.39 
22.42 
7.60 
7.41 
20
 
TRADE PAYABLES
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
Due to:
Micro, small and medium enterprises
22.15 
12.32 
Creditors other than micro, small and medium enterprises
771.86 
633.84 
TOTAL TRADE PAYABLES
794.01 
646.16 
 
Note:
 
1. 
 
The Company has certain dues to suppliers registered under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 
(‚MSMED Act™). The disclosure pursuant to the said MSMED Act, to the extent information available to the Company are 

as follows:
162
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
Principal amount due to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act and remaining unpaid 
as at year end
22.15
12.32
Interest due to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act and remaining unpaid as at year end
 - 
 - 
Principal amounts paid to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act, beyond the appointed 

day during the year
 - 
 - 
Interest paid, other than under Section 16 of MSMED Act, to suppliers registered under the 

MSMED Act, beyond the appointed day during the year
 - 
 - 
Interest paid, under Section 16 of MSMED Act, to suppliers registered under the MSMED 

Act, beyond the appointed day during the year
 - 
 - 
Interest due and payable towards suppliers registered under MSMED Act, for payments 
already made
 - 
 - 
Further interest remaining due and payable for earlier years
 - 
 - 
 
3. 
 
Trade Payables Ageing Schedule:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods 
from due date of payment
Not Due/
Unbilled
Less than 
1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
Total
As at 31
st
 March, 2022
i) 
 
Micro, small and medium enterprises
 17.07 
 5.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 22.15 
ii) 
 
Creditors other than micro, small and medium enterprises
 277.52 
 486.54 
 2.55 
 3.13 
 2.12 
 771.86 
iii) Disputed dues Œ Micro, small and medium enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv) 
 
Disputed dues other than micro, small and medium 
enterprises
 - 
 - 
 0.80 
 0.63 
 2.12 
 3.55 
As at 31
st
 March, 2021
i) 
 
Micro, small and medium enterprises
 10.31 
 1.86 
 0.15 
 - 
 - 
 12.32 
ii) 
 
Creditors other than micro, small and medium enterprises
 238.09 
 389.23 
 3.65 
 0.49 
 2.38 
 633.84 
iii) Disputed dues Œ Micro, small and medium enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv) Disputed dues other than micro, small and medium 
enterprises
 - 
 - 
 1.30 
 0.49 
 2.38 
 4.17 
21
 
OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
Payables towards property, plant & equipment
 41.40 
 121.37 
Unclaimed dividend*
 5.24 
 4.91 
Unpaid matured deposits & interest accrued thereon
 0.01 
 0.01 
Derivative financial liabilities
 2.49 
 0.26 
Others
 - 
 1.02 
TOTAL OTHER FINANCIALS LIABILITIES
 49.14 
 127.57 
 
*Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) credited when due. As at March 31st 2022, no balances were due to be 
transferred to IEPF.
22
 
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
Advances from customers
43.66 
80.87 
Statutory dues
89.01 
85.28 
Other payables
1.87 
2.08 
TOTAL OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
134.54 
168.23 
163
23
 
INCOME TAX ASSETS/LIABILITIES (NET)
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ22
As at
 
31ŒMarŒ21
Income tax liabilities (net of advance tax paid 
R
 288.57 Crores)
 - 
 6.53 
TOTAL INCOME TAX LIABILITIES (NET)
 - 
 6.53 
Income tax assets (net of income tax provision 
R
 264.81 Crores)
 15.42 
 - 
TOTAL INCOME TAX ASSETS (NET)
 15.42 
 - 
24
 
REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Sale of Goods
 
Plastic Products
7569.34 
6132.65 
Traded Goods

 
Plastic Products
47.38 
32.91 
 
Polymers & Others
105.89 
125.23 
7722.61 
6290.79 
Sale of services

 
Income from processing
8.53 
9.47 
 
Others
 - 
0.32 
8.53 
9.79 
Other operating income

 
Government grants/subsidy
10.32 
32.05 
 
Export incentives
5.12 
4.49 
 
Sale of empty bags and other scrap etc.
17.59 
10.37 
 
Insurance and other claims
0.35 
0.22 
 
Liabilities no longer required written back
8.30 
7.49 
41.68 
54.62 
TOTAL REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
7772.82 
6355.20 
       
25
 
OTHER INCOME
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Profit on sale/discard of property, plant and equipment (net)
2.98 
3.85 
Lease rent
0.05 
0.31 
Share of profit in partnership firm
0.28 
0.10 
Fair value gain on investments through profit or loss
0.01 
0.01 
Profit on sale of non current investments
5.40 
 - 
Interest received
1.36 
2.80 
Unwinding of discount on security deposits
0.50 
0.45 
Fair valuation of liquid mutual funds on current investments designated at FVTPL
0.90 
1.38 
Profit on redemption of liquid mutual funds on current investments designated at FVTPL
8.47 
7.99 
TOTAL OTHER INCOME
19.95 
16.89 
26
 
COST OF MATERIALS CONSUMED
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Cost of raw materials consumed
5301.22 
3662.81 
Cost of packing materials consumed
127.71 
100.73 
TOTAL COST OF MATERIALS
5428.93 
3763.54 
164
27
 
CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF FINISHED GOODS, SEMI FINISHED GOODS & STOCK-IN-TRADE
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Inventories at the beginning of the year
Finished goods / Semi finished goods
373.60 
522.54 
Stock-in-trade
6.49 
8.08 
380.09 
530.62 
Inventories at the end of the year
Finished goods / Semi finished goods
585.84 
373.60 
Stock-in-trade
6.52 
6.49 
592.36 
380.09 
Change in inventories
(212.27)
150.53 
TOTAL CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF FINISHED 
GOODS, SEMI FINISHED GOODS & STOCK-IN-TRADE
(212.27)
150.53 
28
 
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSES
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Salaries and wages
266.20 
239.20 
Contribution to provident and other funds
13.50 
11.48 
Managerial remuneration
46.41 
43.73 
Staff welfare expenses
19.17 
15.95 
TOTAL EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSES
345.28 
310.36 
29
 
FINANCE COSTS
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Interest expenses on borrowings
 - 
14.81 
Interest on lease liabilities
3.76 
3.68 
Unwinding of discount on deferred sales tax
0.09 
0.08 
Other borrowing costs
1.00 
1.16 
Interest on income tax (Previous year net of interest on income tax refund of 
R
 1.96 Crores)
0.30 
2.32 
TOTAL FINANCE COSTS
5.15 
22.05 
30
 
OTHER EXPENSES
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Stores & spare parts consumed
45.87 
41.92 
Labour charges
194.33 
169.72 
Power & fuel
213.43 
198.57 
Water charges
1.07 
1.13 
Repairs & maintenance of buildings
7.52 
2.96 
Repairs & maintenance of plant & machinery
14.48 
13.80 
Repairs & maintenance (others)
15.14 
11.57 
Directors' Fees and Commission to non executive directors
1.30 
1.33 
Rent, rates & taxes
5.02 
4.88 
Insurance
8.19 
8.27 
Corporate social responsibility and donations
15.87 
12.10 
Legal & professional fees
19.55 
14.25 
Travelling & conveyance 
26.62 
17.61 
Vehicle expenses
3.58 
2.36 
Advertisement, publicity & business promotion
63.12 
55.14 
Freight and forwarding charges
129.32 
110.98 
Printing, stationery & communication
8.71 
7.36 
Commission
19.02 
17.09 
Bad debts (net of bad debts recovered)
0.04 
0.60 
Provision for doubtful debts
 - 
0.86 
Plant security services
14.33 
13.14 
Inspection, testing, registration and marking fees
7.63 
6.84 
Foreign currency exchange fluctuation (net)
14.01 
1.79 
Miscellaneous expenses
4.11 
3.71 
TOTAL OTHER EXPENSES
832.26 
717.98 
165
31
 
INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE
 
:
 
Details and material financial information of Associate:
 
Summarised financial information in respect of Group™s material associate is set out below. The summarised financial information 
below represents amounts shown in the associate™s financial statements prepared in accordance with Ind AS adjusted by the 
Group for equity accounting purposes.
Principal activity
Place of incorporation 
and principal place of 
business
Proportion of ownership interest / 
voting rights held by the Group
As at 31-Mar-2022
As at 31-Mar-2021
Business of Styrenics and Manufactures of Polystyrene 

and Masterbatches
India
30.78%
30.78%
 
The above associate is accounted for using the equity method in these consolidated financial statements.
 
Summarised financial information of Associate:
Particulars
As at 
 
31-Mar-2022
As at 
 
31-Mar-2021
Non-current assets
 533.34 
 390.32 
Current assets
 1744.96 
 1365.02 
Non-current liabilities
 57.82 
 68.89 
Current liabilities
 704.84 
 621.60 
Contingent liabilities
 153.37 
 129.73 
Commitments
 34.36 
 27.16 
Particulars
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Revenue
 5062.80 
 3206.45 
Profit/(loss) for the year
 663.26 
 477.49 
Other comprehensive income for the year (net of taxes)
 (0.83)
 (0.80)
Total comprehensive income for the year 
 662.44 
 476.69 
Dividends received from the associate during the year
 47.75 
 11.57 
32
 
SEGMENT REPORTING :
Particulars
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
1) 
 
Segment revenue
 
Plastics piping products
 5045.99 
 4098.79 
 
Industrial products
 1023.67 
 761.12 
 
Packaging products
 1210.11 
 1035.06 
 
Consumer products
 405.09 
 354.21 
 
Others
 87.96 
 106.02 
 
Net Revenue from operations
 7772.82 
 6355.20 
2) 
 
Segment results
 
Plastics piping products
 783.88 
 821.29 
 
Industrial products
 85.26 
 63.46 
 
Packaging products
 100.91 
 124.59 
 
Consumer products
 54.07 
 59.66 
 
Others
 8.45 
 24.23 
 
Total segment profit before interest and tax
 1032.57 
 1093.23 
 
Add: Share of profit/(loss) of associate
 204.39 
 145.99 
 
Less: Finance cost
 5.15 
 22.05 
 
Less: Other Un-allocable Expenditure
 19.98 
 21.84 
 
Add: Un-allocable Income
 19.95 
 16.89 
 
Profit before tax
 1231.78 
 1212.22 
 
Less: Provision for tax
 263.33 
 234.08 
 
Add: Other comprehensive income (net of tax)
 (1.19)
 (1.55)
 
Profit after tax 
 967.26 
 976.59 
166
 
Business segments
 
Based on the ﬁmanagement approachﬂ as defined in Ind-AS 108 - Operating Segments, the Managing Director/Decision Maker 
evaluates the Company™s performance and allocates resources based on an analysis of various performance indicators by business 
segments. Accordingly, information has been presented along with these business segments. The accounting principles used in 
the preparation of the financial statements are consistently applied to record revenue and expenditure in individual segments. 
The Company™s principal operations are located in its country of domicile i.e. India.
 
Segment assets and liabilities
 
The Company is engaged mainly in production of plastic products. Most of the assets, liabilities of the aforesaid reportable 
segments are interchangeable or not practically allocable and any forced allocation would not result in any meaningful 

segregation. Accordingly, segment assets, liabilities have not been presented.
 
No customer individually accounted for more than 10% of the revenues in the years ended 31
st
 March, 2022 and 31
st
 March, 
2021.
33
 
EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
2021 - 2022
2020 - 2021
Profit after tax (PAT)
 968.45 
 978.14 
Weighted average number of equity Shares (In Nos.)
127026870 
127026870 
Nominal value of equity Shares (In 
r
)
 2.00 
 2.00 
Basic & diluted earning per share (In 
r
)
 76.24 
 77.00 
34
 
COMMITMENTS
 
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on Capital Account and not provided for (net of advances) is 
R
 237.62 
Crores (Previous year 
R
 178.58 Crores).
35
 
There is only one foreign subsidiary company with insignificant transactions. The accounting policies and notes to accounts 
being similar to that of the holding company as stated in standalone financial statements are not appended hereto.
36
 
The previous year figures have been re-grouped / re-classified wherever required to conform to current year™s classification.
Signature to Notes 1-36
For and on behalf of the Board
B. L. Taparia
M. P. Taparia
S. J. Taparia
Chairman
Managing Director
Executive Director
(DIN No. 00112438)
(DIN No. 00112461)
(DIN No. 00112513)
V. K. Taparia
R. M. Pandia
Ameeta Parpia
Executive Director
Director
Director
(DIN No. 00112567)
(DIN No. 00021730)
(DIN No. 02654277)
R. Kannan
Sarthak Behuria
P. C. Somani
Director
Director
Chief Financial Officer
(DIN No. 00380328)
(DIN No. 03290288)
R. J. Saboo
VP (Corporate Affairs) & Company Secretary
Mumbai, 29
th
 April, 2022
167
Details of Manufacturing & Fabrication Units:
S. 
No.
States
Locations
Address
GST Nos.
Type
Products
1
Assam
Guwahati 
Unit-I
The Supreme Industries Limited

Dag No. 275 & 306, Epip Zone, Post Amingaon, Village 
Numalijolahko Mouza, SilasundariGopa, North Guwahati Dist. 
Kamrup, Assam-781031, India
18AAACT1344F1ZN
Manufacturing 
Unit
Material 

Handling 
Products, 
Furniture
2
Assam
Guwahati 
Unit-II
The Supreme Industries Limited
Patta No.55,16,113,27, Dag No.199,200,1,490,472,473, 
 
BR Industrial Park , Phase - 1, Nh - 27, Vill-Dinkar, Pobaihata, 

PS-Kamalpur, Kamrup, Assam-781380, India.
18AAACT1344F7ZH
Proposed 
Manufacturing 
unit
Plastics Piping 
Products
3
Gujarat
Halol Unit-I
The Supreme Industries Limited
Factory at Plot No. 1307 & Plot No. 216, GIDC Industrial 
Estate Halol Dist. Panchmahals, Gujarat- 389 350, India
24AAACT1344F1ZU
Manufacturing 
Unit
Cross Laminated 

Film & Products
4
Gujarat
Halol Unit-II
The Supreme Industries Limited
Survey No. 123/1 & 123/2 Paiky -1 Village - Muvala, 

Khakhariamadhvasraod, Get Muvala, Taluka :Halol Dist. 
Godhra (pms)-389350 Gujrat, India
24AAACT1344F1ZU
Manufacturing 
Unit
Cross Laminated 

Film & Products
5
Gujarat
Halol Unit-III
The Supreme Industries Limited
Survey No. 188/1 & 189 (part) Chandrapura Dist. Panchmahal, 
Halol-389350 Gujrat, India
24AAACT1344F1ZU
Manufacturing 
Unit
Composite LPG 

Cylinder
6
Gujarat
Halol Unit-

IV
The Supreme Industries Limited

703 GIDC Halol Œ Dist. Panchmahals-389350, Gujrat, India
24AAACT1344F1ZU
Manufacturing 

Unit
Cross Laminated 

Film & Products
7
Gujarat
Halol Unit-V
The Supreme Industries Limited
Shed No.807, 809, C/o Mig Metals Pvt. Ltd., Gidc Estate, 
Halol, Panchmahals, Gujarat 389350
24AAACT1344F1ZU
Fabrication 
unit
Cross Laminated 

Film Products
8
Haryana
Gurgaon
The Supreme Industries Limited
Sector 6, Plot No. 210, Itm Manesar, Gurgaon, 
Gurgaon,gurgaon, Haryana, 122050
06AAACT1344F1ZS
Fabrication 
unit
Protective 

Packaging 
Products
9
Madhya 
Pradesh
Malanpur 

Unit-I
The Supreme Industries Limited
Plot No N-1 To N-12, Ghironghi Industrial, Area, Malanpur, 
Bhind, Madhya Pradesh, 477116
23AAACT1344F4ZT
Manufacturing 
Unit
Protective 

Packaging 
Products
10
Madhya 

Pradesh
Malanpur 

Unit-II
The Supreme Industries Limited
Factory At Plot No. K-1 To K-4 K-8 K-9 Ghirongiindl Area, 
Malanpur, Madhya Pradesh-477116, India
23AAACT1344F3ZU
Manufacturing 
Unit
Plastics Piping 

Products
11
Madhya 

Pradesh
Malanpur 

Unit-III
The Supreme Industries Limited
Roto Moulding  Division Gag-14  Ghironghi Industrial Area, 
Malanpur, Dist. Bhind- Madhya Pradesh-477116 India
23AAACT1344F6ZR
Manufacturing 
Unit
Plastics Piping 

Products
12
Maharashtra
Gadegaon
The Supreme Industries Limited
Factory At Unit No. Iii, Plot No. 47,47/2, 48-50,55-

66,69,70,72,73,77 To 83/1, 83/2, 84 & 85, Gadegaon, Jalgaon 
To Aurangabad Road, Taluka - Jamner, Dist.- Jalgaon-425114, 
Maharashtra, India
27AAACT1344F1ZO
Manufacturing 
Unit
Plastics Piping 
Products, 

Industrial 

Components, 

Furniture, 

Material 

Handling 

Products
13
Maharashtra
Jalgaon 
Unit-I
The Supreme Industries Limited
Factory At D101/102, Midc & Survey(ghat) No 242/ 1& 
2, 245/03 And Survey No 244/2,3,4 & 5, Jalgaon-425003 
Maharashtra, India
27AAACT1344F1ZO
Manufacturing 
Unit
Plastics Piping 
Products
14
Maharashtra
Jalgaon 
Unit-II
The Supreme Industries Limited
Unit No 2,plot No H-20 Midc,ajanta Road Jalgaon-425003 
Maharashtra, India
27AAACT1344F1ZO
Manufacturing 
Unit
Plastics Piping 
Products
15
Maharashtra
Khopoli
The Supreme Industries Limited
Factory At Takaiadoshi Road Village Honad, Khopoli-410203, 
Maharashtra India
27AAACT1344F1ZO
Manufacturing 
Unit
Performance 
Packaging Films
16
Maharashtra
Kanhe
The Supreme Industries Limited
Factory At Post Kanhe, Tal Maval,talegaon, Pune-412106, 
Maharashtra, India
27AAACT1344F1ZO
Manufacturing 
Unit
Industrial 
Components, 
Material 
Handling 

Products
17
Maharashtra
Urse
The Supreme Industries Limited
Gut No. 420 To 424, Ursemaval Talegaon Dabhade, Pune-
410506, Maharashtra, India
27AAACT1344F1ZO
Manufacturing 
Unit
Protective 
Packaging 

Products
168
S. 
No.
States
Locations
Address
GST Nos.
Type
Products
18
Maharashtra
Urse
The Supreme Industries Limited
Gat No. 474, Urse, Urse-maval, Talegaon-dabhade, Pune, 
Maharashtra, 410506
27AAACT1344F1ZO
Fabrication 
unit
Protective 
Packaging 
Products
19
Maharashtra
Waluj
The Supreme Industries Limited
Plot No.5 Gat No. 54, M/s. Vedant Enterprise,, Midc Walunj, 

Aurangabad, Aurangabad, Mh
27AAACT1344F1ZO
Fabrication 
unit
Protective 
Packaging 
Products
20
Orissa
Cuttack
The Supreme Industries Limited
Mauza Bhogara, Plot No - 837, 876 and 771 and 40 sub plots, 
Beside Khuntuni 132/33kv GIS Power Grid Substation, 
 
NH - 55 Thana Gurudijhatia, Tahasil - Athagarh, Cuttack, 

Odisha, 754029
21AAACT1344F2ZZ
Proposed 

Manufacturing 
unit
Plastics Piping 
Products
21
Puducherry 
(Union 
Territory)
Puducherry
The Supreme Industries Limited
R.s.no.90 & 91 Sanyasikuppam Village, Thirubhuvani Post, 

Pondy-605107, India
34AAACT1344F1ZT
Manufacturing 
Unit
Industrial 
Components, 
Material 

Handling 

Products, 

Furniture, 
Plastics Piping 
Products
22
Puducherry 
(Union 
Territory)
Puducherry
The Supreme Industries Limited
Rs No. 86/1 And 86/2, Sanyasikuppam Village, Thirubhuvanai, 
Pondicherry, Puducherry, 605107
34AAACT1344F1ZT
Fabrication 
unit
Protective 
Packaging 

Products
23
Puducherry 
(Union 
Territory)
Puducherry
The Supreme Industries Limited
R.s.no.95/1, 95/2 And 4/1a, Sanyasikuppam Village, 
Thirubhuvanai - Post, Pondicherry, Puducherry, 605107
34AAACT1344F1ZT
Manufacturing 
Unit
Plastics Piping 
Products
24
Punjab
Derabassi
The Supreme Industries Limited
Village Sersani, Near Lalru, Ambala Chandigarh Highway, Dist. 
Sas Nagar, Punjab-140501, India
03AAACT1344F1ZY
Manufacturing 
Unit
Material 
Handling 

Products, 
Furniture
25
Rajasthan
Ghiloth
The Supreme Industries Limited
Plot No.: A-211, Ghiloth Industrial Area, Rajasthan-301705, 
India
08AAACT1344F1ZO
Manufacturing 
Unit
Industrial 
Components
26
Silvassa 
(Union 
Territory)
Silvassa
The Supreme Industries Limited
Factory At Survey No.175/1 And 175/2, Via Athal Tin Rasta 
Near Luhariphatal, Village Kharadpada, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, 

Silvassa-396230, India
26AAACT1344F1ZQ
Manufacturing 
Unit
Cross Laminated 
Film & Products
27
Tamilnadu
Hosur - I
The Supreme Industries Limited
S.f. No. 22/3, 22/2b, 23/1b, 24/1a, & 593/1b1 Biramangalam 
Village Denkanikotta Taluka, Dist. Krishnagiri, Hosur-635109, 
India
33AAACT1344F1ZV
Manufacturing 
Unit
Protective 
Packaging 

Products
28
Tamilandu
Hosur - II
The Supreme Industries Limited
828/2A2, Kelamangalam, Byramangalam, Krishnagiri, Tamil 
Nadu, 635113
33AAACT1344F1ZV
Fabrication 
unit
Protective 
Packaging 

Products
29
Tamilnadu
Sriperumbudur
The Supreme Industries Ltd.
Plot G -14 & 15 Sipcot Indl. Park, Sripermbudur, Dist. 
Kancheepuram, Chennai-602105, India
33AAACT1344F1ZV
Manufacturing 
Unit
Industrial 
Components
30
Tamilandu
Chennai
The Supreme Industries Limited
No. 19, Numbal Road, Numbal, Chennai, Chennai, Tamil 

Nadu, 600077
33AAACT1344F1ZV
Fabrication 
unit
Protective 
Packaging 
Products
31
Tamilandu
Perundurai
The Supreme Industries Limited
Plot No Nn-7 And Nn-8, Sipcot Industrial Growth Centre, 

Perundurai, Erode, Tamil Nadu, 638052
33AAACT1344F1ZV
Proposed 
Manufacturing 

Unit
Plastics Piping 
Products
32
Telangana
Jadcherla
The Supreme Industries Limited
Plot No. 24, 26 To 40, 43 To 45, 41p, 42p, 47p, 48p, Gip-
jadcherla, Jadcherla Mandal, Polepally Village,mahabubnagar, 
Telangana, 509301
36AAACT1344F1ZP
Manufacturing 
Unit
Plastics Piping 
Products, 

Material 
Handling 
Products, 
Furniture, 

Protective
 
Packaging 

Products
33
Uttar 
Pradesh
Kanpur
The Supreme Industries Limited
H1-h8, H1/a, H9/1 And Khasra No. 135,136,137 & 141 
Upsidc Ind. Area Jainpur, Kanpur Dehat-up 209311, India
09AAACT1344F1ZM
Manufacturing 
Unit
Plastics Piping 

Products
Details of Manufacturing & Fabrication Units:
169
S. 
No.
States
Locations
Address
GST Nos.
Type
Products
34
Uttar 
Pradesh
Noida
The Supreme Industries Limited
Factory At C 30 To 31 Phase II Noida District, Gautam Budh 
Nagar, Uttar Pradesh-201305, India
09AAACT1344F1ZM
Manufacturing 
Unit
Industrial 

Components
35
Uttarakhand
Rudrapur
The Supreme Industries Limited
Near Kingfisher Bottling Plant, Vill Simla Pistor, Kiccha Road, 
Rudrapur, Udham Singh Nagar, Uttarakhand, 263153
05AAACT1344F1ZU
Fabrication 
unit
Protective 

Packaging 
Products
36
West Bengal
Durgapur
The Supreme Industries Limited
Export Promotion Indl. Park (e.p.i.p.), No. 3017-19, 3183-
87, 29-35,39,40,42,43,49-54,56 Banskopa, Bidhan Nagar, 

Durgapur, Dist.burdvan, West Bengal-713212, India
19AAACT1344F1ZL
Manufacturing 
Unit
Industrial 

Components, 
Material 

Handling 
Products, 
Furniture
37
West Bengal
Kharagpur
The Supreme Industries Limited
Vill.-bagabhera&imampatna, Katai Khal P.o.-loha Baran Chak, 
P.s.-narayan Garh, Near Narayangarh Power Station Dist.-
paschim Midnapur, Pin-721437 West Bengal, India
19AAACT1344F1ZL
Manufacturing 
Unit
Plastics Piping 

Products, 
Material 
Handling 
Products, 
Furniture, 

Protective 
Packaging 
Products
Details of Manufacturing & Fabrication Units:
170
NOTES 
 
 
 
171
NOTES 
 
 
 
172
NOTES 
 
 
 
