Thirty Second Annual Report 
2017-2018
Chief Financial Of˜cer
 
Mr. Paresh B. Mehta
Company Secretary and Compliance Of˜cer
 
Ms. Priti P. Dave
Bankers
 
 State Bank of India 
 Corporation Bank
 
 IDBI Bank Limited   
 DBS Bank Limited
Auditors
 
M/s. B S R & Co. LLP
Barjora Factory

Plot No. 1498/2613, WBIDC Industrial Complex, Barjora Mejia Road,
 
P. O. & P. S. Barjora, District: Bankura, Pincode Œ 722 202, West Bengal.
Bhiwandi Factory

Building No. D-1, Gala No. 101-107, Krishna Complex, 

Near Gajanan Petrol Pump, Mankoli Naka, Moje Dapode, 

Village Bhiwandi, Thane, Maharashtra  - 421 302.

Dharuhera Factory

Khasra no.17/14/2,15/2/1,16/2,17,18,19/1, Village Malpura, 

Taluka-Dharuhera, Malpura, Rewari, Haryana Œ 123 401.

Hosur Factory

Part of Survey No. 149, 151 to 153, 155/9, 226/1C, 227 and 299/1, 

Next to GNB Factory, Nallaganakothapalli Village, Koneripalli Post, 

Shoolagiri Taluk (Hosur), Krishnagiri District- 635 117, Tamilnadu.

Jammu Factory

Phase Œ II, Industrial Growth Centre, Samba Œ 184 121, 

Jammu & Kashmir.

Kharadpada Factory

Survey No. 389, 391, 393, 396 & 401, Naroli Œ Kharadpada Road,

Village: Kharadpada, Silvassa -396 230,

Union Territory of Dadra & Nagar Haveli.

Noida Factory

Plot No.26, B&C Sector No.31, Surajpur Œ Kasna Road, 

Behind HPCL Gas Plant, Gautam Budha Nagar,

Greater Noida Œ 201 310, Uttar Pradesh.

Puducherry Factory

19/3-5, 18/1-B & 21/6, Olaivaikkal Village,
 
Villianoor-Pathukannu Road, 
Villianoor Taluk Œ 605 502, Puducherry.

Sinnar Factory

STICE, Plot No.971/1A, Sinnar Shirdi Road, Musalgaon,

Sinnar - 422 103, District - Nashik, Maharashtra.

Registered Of˜ce and Vasona Factory

Survey No. 354/2 and 354/3, Near Rakholi Bridge, 

Silvassa Khanvel Road, Vasona, Silvassa 396 230,

Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli.

Corporate Of˜ce

Nilkamal House, 77/78, Road No.13/14, MIDC, 

Andheri (E), Mumbai Œ 400 093, Maharashtra.
Nilkamal Limited
CIN: L25209DN1985PLC000162
CONTENTS
 
PAGE NOS
.
Notice
 
..........................................................
2
Directors™ Report and Annexures 
 
.............
9
Corporate Governance Report
 
................
32 
Management Discussion and Analysis
 
....
42
Auditors™ Report and Annexure 
 
.............
45
Balance Sheet
 
...........................................
52
Statement of Pro˜t and Loss 
 
..................
53
Cash Flow Statement 
 
..............................
54
Notes to the Financial Statements
 
..........
56
Auditors™ Report on Consolidated
Financial Statements
 
................................
93
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
 
...................
98
Consolidated Statement of Pro˜t and Loss
 
....
99
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
 
.....
100
Notes to the Consolidated 

Financial Statements 
 
.............................
102
Salient features of Financial Statements of
 
Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures
 
..................
140
Performance at a Glance 
 
......................
141
Proxy Form
 
..............................................
143
Attendance Slip 
Board of Directors
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh
 
-
 
Chairman
Mr. Sharad V. Parekh
 
-
 
Managing Director
Mr. Hiten V. Parekh
 
-
 
Joint Managing Director
Mr. Manish V. Parekh
 
-
 
President and Executive Director
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh
 
-
 
President and Executive Director
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
 
-
 
Director
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy
 
-
 
Director
Mr. K. Venkataramanan
 
-
 
Director
 
Mr. Mahendra V. Doshi
 
-
 
Director
Mr. Mufazzal S. Federal
 
-
 
Director
Mr. S. K. Palekar
 
-
 
Director
2
Notice
NOTICE is hereby given that the Thirty Second Annual General Meeting of the Members of Nilkamal Limited 
will be held at the Registered Of˜ce of the Company at Survey No. 354/2 & 354/3, Near Rakholi Bridge, Silvassa 

- Khanvel Road, Vasona, Silvassa Œ 396 230, Union Territory of Dadra & Nagar Haveli, on Saturday,
 
June 30, 2018 
at 12.00 noon to transact the following business:
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.
  
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Financial Statements including the Audited Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Company for 
the ˜nancial year ended March 31, 2018, together with the Reports of the 
Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon.
2.
 
To declare Dividend on equity shares for the year ended March 31, 2018.
3.
  
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Nayan S. Parekh (DIN: 00037597), who retires by rotation and being 
eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
4.
  
To consider and if thought ˜t, to pass, with or without modi˜cation(s), the following Resolution as an 
Ordinary Resolution:
 
 
ﬁRESOLVED THAT
 pursuant to the provisions of Section 139, 142 and other applicable provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder, as amended from time to time, and upon the 
recommendations of the Audit Committee, M/s.
 
B
 
S
 
R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Registration No. 
101248W/ W-100022) be and are hereby appointed as the Statutory Auditors of the Company to hold of˜ce as 
such untill the conclusion of the Thirty Seventh Annual General Meeting of the Company, and that the Board 

of Directors be and is hereby authorised to ˜x the remuneration plus applicable taxes and reimbursement of 

out of pocket expenses payable to them for the said tenure of their appointment, from time to time, as may 

be determined by the Audit Committee in consultation with the Auditors, and that such remuneration may be 

paid on a progressive billing basis as may be agreed upon between the Auditors and the Board of Directors.ﬂ
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
5.
  
To consider and if thought ˜t, to pass, with or without modi˜cation(s), the following Resolution as an 
Ordinary Resolution:
  
ﬁRESOLVED THAT
 pursuant to the provisions of Section 148 and other applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with the Rules made thereunder (including any statutory modi˜cation(s) or re-enactment 
thereof for the time being in force), M/s.
 
B.
 
F.
 
Modi and Associates, Cost Accountants (Firm Registration No. 
6955) appointed by the Board of Directors as Cost Auditors of the Company to conduct audit of cost records 

of the Company for the ˜nancial year 2018-2019 at remuneration of 
`
 3.25 lacs (Rupees Three Lacs Twenty 
Five Thousand Only) plus taxes and reimbursement of out of pocket expenses at actual, be and is hereby 

rati˜ed and con˜rmed.ﬂ
6.
  
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without modification(s), the following Resolution as a 
 
Special
 
Resolution:
  
ﬁRESOLVED THAT 
pursuant to Section 149, 152 of the Companies Act, 2013 (ﬁthe Actﬂ) and such other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, read with Schedule IV of the Act, 

Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani (DIN: 06992518), whose term of of˜ce expires at this Thirty Second Annual General 

Meeting, be and is hereby re-appointed as an Independent Director, for a further term of 5 (Five) years, to 

hold of˜ce upto the conclusion of the Thirty Seventh Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 

the calendar year 2023.ﬂ 
7. 
  
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without modification(s), the following Resolution as a 
Special 
Resolution:
 
ﬁRESOLVED THA
T
 
pursuant to Regulation 31A and other relevant provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 

2013 (‚Act™) read with the Rules framed there under (including any statutory modi˜cation(s) or re-enactment 

thereof), the approval of the Members be and is hereby accorded for re-classi˜cation of Ms. Rajul Manoj 

Gandhi and Mr. Manoj Kantilal Gandhi, forming part of the existing promoter group of the Company from 

‚Promoter / Promoter Group category™ to ‚Public category™.
 
RESOLVED FUR
THER THAT
 
that the said promoter group seeking re-classi˜cation do / will not (i) have any 
special rights through formal or informal agreements (ii) hold more than 10% of the paid-up capital of the 

Company (iii) act as a Key Managerial Personnel of the Company.
 
RESOLVED FUR
THER THAT
 
on approval of the SEBI/ Stock Exchange(s) for the said re-classi˜cation, the 
Company shall effect such re-classi˜cation in the Statement of Shareholding Pattern of the Company from 

immediate succeeding quarter under Regulation 31 of the Listing Regulations and in compliance with SEBI 

(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 

Regulations, 2015, and other applicable laws.
 
RESOLVED FUR
THER THAT
 
the Board be and is hereby authorised to take all such steps as may be necessary, 
proper and expedient in this regards, and further delegate all or any of the powers conferred on it by or 

under this Resolution to any Committee of Directors of the Company or to any Director of the Company or 

any other employee(s) of the Company as it may consider appropriate in order to give effect to this resolution 

including ˜ling of necessary forms and returns with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Stock Exchanges and 
other concerned authorities.ﬂ
3
Notice
Notes:
1.
  
The Explanatory Statement 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect 
of the businesses at Item Nos. 5 to 7 above is annexed hereto and forms a part of the Notice.
2.
  
The relevant details of persons seeking re-appointment as Director under Item Nos. 3 and 6 of the Notice, as 
required pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 entered into with the Stock Exchanges, is also annexed.
3.
  
A MEMBER ENTITLED TO ATTEND AND VOTE A
T THE MEETING IS ENTITLED TO APPOINT A PROXY TO ATTEND 
AND VOTE ON A POLL INSTEAD OF HIMSELF AND SUCH PROXY NEED NOT BE A MEMBER OF THE COMPANY.
 
THE PROXIES TO BE EFFECTIVE, SHOULD BE RECEIVED BY THE COMPANY AT ITS REGISTERED OFFICE NOT 

LESS THAN 48 HOURS BEFORE THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE MEETING.
  
A PERSON CAN ACT AS A PROXY ON BEHALF OF MEMBERS NOT EXCEEDING FIFTY AND HOLDING IN 
AGGREGATE NOT MORE THAN TEN PER CENT OF THE TOTAL SHARE CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY CARRYING 

VOTING RIGHTS. A MEMBER HOLDING MORE THAN TEN PER CENT OF THE TOTAL SHARE CAPITAL OF THE 

COMPANY CARRYING VOTING RIGHTS MAY APPOINT A SINGLE PERSON AS PROXY AND SUCH PERSON SHALL 

NOT ACT AS A PROXY FOR ANY OTHER PERSON OR SHAREHOLDER.
4.
  
Corporate members intending to send their authorised representatives to attend the meeting are requested 
to send a certi˜ed copy of the Board Resolution authorising their representative to attend and vote on their 

behalf at the meeting.
5.
  
The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books of the Company will remain closed from June 24, 2018 to 
June 30, 2018, both days inclusive.
6.
  
The ˜nal dividend, as recommended by the Board, if approved at the Annual General Meeting (AGM), in 
respect of equity shares held in electronic form will be payable to the bene˜cial owners of shares as on
 
June 23, 2018 as per the downloads furnished to the Company by Depositories for this purpose. In case of 

shares held in physical form, dividend will be paid to the shareholders, whose names shall appear on the 

Register of Members 
after giving effect to valid transfers in respect of transfer requests lodged with the 
Company on or before the close of business hours on June 23, 2018.
7.
  
Members holding 
shares in dematerialized form are requested to register their latest Bank Account details 
(Core Banking Solutions enabled Account Number, 9 digit MICR and 11
 
digit IFS code) with their Depository 
Participant. Members holding shares in physical form are requested to provide the above details, along with 

their Folio Number, to the Company™s Registrar and Transfer Agents, M/s. Link Intime India Private Limited.
8.
  
Members holding 
shares in dematerialized form are requested to intimate any changes pertaining to their 
name, address, registered email id, bank details, NECS mandates, nominations, power of attorney, etc. to 

their Depository Participant. Changes intimated to the Depository Participant will be automatically re˚ected 

in the Company™s records. Members holding shares in physical form are requested to intimate any of the 

above mentioned changes, alongwith the request for merging of folio etc., to the Company™s Registrar and 

Transfer Agents, M/s. Link Intime India Private Limited.
9.
  
For the purpose of availing Nomination facility, members holding 
shares in dematerialised form are required 
to lodge the nomination with their Depository Participant and
 members 
holding shares in physical form 
are required to ˜ll and submit Form SH-13 (available on request) with the Company™s Registrar and Transfer 
Agents, M/s.
 
Link Intime India Private Limited.
10.
  
Members holding shares in physical form are requested to consider converting their holding to dematerialized 

form as trading in physical shares is not feasible and also to eliminate all the risks associated with such 

physical shares. Members can contact the Company or the Company™s Registrar and Transfer Agents, 
 
M/s. Link Intime India Private Limited, for assistance in this regard.
11.
  
Members, wishing to claim dividends, which remain unclaimed for the ˜nancial years 2010-2011 onwards, 
are requested to write to the Company™s Registrar and Transfer Agents, M/s.
 
Link Intime India Private Limited
 
at 
C-101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli West, Mumbai: 400083
. It may be noted that once such unclaimed 
dividends are transferred on expiry of seven years to the Investor Education and Protection Fund, no claim 

shall lie in respect thereof. Further, shares on which the dividend remains unclaimed for seven consecutive 

years will also be transferred to the IEPF Suspense Account in accordance with the Section 124 of the Act, 

and the applicable Rules. 
The shares transferred to the IEPF Suspense Account can be claimed back by the 

concerned shareholders from the IEPF Authority after complying with the procedure prescribed under the 

Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016.
12.
  
Any request for revalidation of dividend warrant(s) by any member of the Company may be directed to the 
Company or its Registrar and Transfer Agents, M/s. Link Intime India Private Limited.
13.
  
The Notice of the 32
nd
 AGM and instructions for e-voting, along with the Attendance Slip and Proxy Form, 
is being sent by electronic mode to all members whose email addresses are registered with the Company 

/ Depository Participant(s), unless a member has requested for a hard copy of the same. For members who 

have not registered their email addresses, physical copies of the documents are being sent by the permitted 

mode.
  
The Annual Report 2017-2018 of the Company, circulated to the members of the Company
, is also available 
on the Company™s website at 
www.nilkamal.com
.
4
Notice
14.
  
Members desiring 
any information as regards the Accounts are requested to write to the Company at its 
Corporate Of˜ce at least 10 days prior to the date of AGM so as to enable the Management to keep the 
information ready.
15.
  
Members /Proxies should bring duly ˜lled Attendance Slips sent herewith to attend the Meeting. Members 
holding equity shares in electronic form, and proxies thereof, are requested to bring their DP ID and client 

ID for identi˜cation.
16.
  
Voting through electronic means:
  
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Amendment Rules, 2015 and the Regulation 44(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board 

of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Company is pleased to 

provide members facility to exercise their right to vote at the AGM by electronic means through remote 

e-voting platform provided by Link Intime India Private Limited (LIIPL). The facility for voting, through ballot 

paper, will also be made available at the AGM and the members attending the AGM who have not already 

cast their votes by remote e-voting shall be able to exercise their right at the AGM through ballot paper. 

Members who have cast their votes by remote e-voting prior to the AGM may attend the AGM but shall not 

be entitled to cast their votes again.
  
The voting period begins on June 27, 2018 at 10.00 am and ends on June 29, 2018 at 5.00 pm. During this 
period shareholders of the Company, holding shares either in physical form or in dematerialized form, as on 

the cut-off date (record date) of June 23, 2018 may cast their vote electronically. The e-voting module shall 

be disabled by LIIPL for voting thereafter.
 
The instructions for shareholders voting electr
onically are as under:
 
i)
  
Log-in to e-V
oting website of Link Intime India Private Limited (LIIPL) by visiting the e-voting system of 
LIIPL at the following URL: 
https://instavote.linkintime.co.in
.
 
ii)
 
Click on ﬁLoginﬂ tab, available under ‚Shareholders™ section.
 
iii)
 
  
Enter your User ID, password and image veri˜cation code (CAPTCHA) as shown on the screen and click 
on ﬁSUBMITﬂ.
 
iv)
 
Your User ID details are given below:
   
a.
 
 
Shareholders holding shares in demat account with NSDL: Your User ID is 8
 
Character DP ID followed 
by 8 Digit Client ID
 
b.
 
Shareholders holding shares in demat account with CDSL: Your User ID is 16
 
Digit Bene˜ciary ID
   
c.
 
 
Shareholders holding 
shares in Physical Form (i.e. Share Certi˜cate): Your User ID is Event No + Folio 
Number registered with the Company
 
v)
 
Your Password details are given below:
   
If you are using 
e-Voting system of LIIPL: 
https://instavote.linkintime.co.in
 for the ˜rst time or if you are 
holding shares in physical form, you need to follow the steps given below:
   
Click on ﬁSign Upﬂ tab available under ‚Shareholders™ section register your details and set the password 
of your choice and con˜rm. (The password should contain minimum 8 characters, at least one special 

character, at least one numeral, at least one alphabet and at least one capital letter.)
For Shareholders holding shares in Demat Form or Physical Form
PAN
Enter your 10 digit alpha-numeric PAN issued by Income Tax Department (applicable for 
both demat shareholders as well as physical shareholders).

Members who have not updated their PAN with depository Participant or in the 

Company record are requested to use the sequence number which is printed on Ballot 

Form / Attendance Slip indicated in the PAN Field.
DOB/ DOI
Enter the DOB (Date of Birth)/ DOI (Date of Incorporation)  as recorded with depository 

participant or in the Company record for the said demat account or folio number in dd/

mm/yyyy format.
Dividend 

Bank 

Details
Enter the Dividend Bank Details as recorded in your demat account or in the Company 

records for the said demat account or folio number.

Please enter the DOB/ DOI or Dividend Bank Details in order to register. If the above 

mentioned details are not recorded with the depository participants or Company, 

please enter Folio number in the Dividend Bank Details field as mentioned in 

instruction (iv).
  
 
If you are holding shares in demat form and had registered on to e-Voting system of LIIPL:
 
https://instavote.linkintime.co.in
, and/or voted on an earlier voting of any Company then you can use 
your existing password to login.
 
If Shareholders holding shares in Demat Form or Physical Form have forgotten password:
 
Enter User ID, select Mode and Enter Image Veri˜cation code (CAPTCHA). Click on ﬁSUBMITﬂ.
5
Notice
 
Incase shareholder is having valid email address, Password will be sent to the shareholder™s registered 
e-mail address. Else, shareholder can set the password of his/her choice by providing the information 
about the particulars of the Security Question & Answer, PAN, DOB/ DOI, Dividend Bank Details etc. and 

con˜rm. (The password should contain minimum 8 characters, at least one special character, at least one 

numeral, at least one alphabet and at least one capital letter.)
 
NOTE:
 The password is to be used by demat shareholders for voting on the resolutions placed by the 

Company in which they are a shareholder and eligible to vote, provided that the Company opts for 

e-voting platform of LIIPL.
 
For shareholders holding shares in physical form, the details can be used only for voting on the resolutions 
contained in this Notice.
 
It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to 
keep your password con˜dential.
 
vi)
 
 
After successful login, you will be able to see the noti˜cation for e-voting on the home page of INSTA 
Vote. Select/ View ﬁEvent Noﬂ of the Company, you choose to vote.
vii)
 
On the voting page, you will see ﬁResolution Descriptionﬂ and against the same the option ﬁFavour/ 
Againstﬂ for voting.
 
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate option i.e. Favour/Against as desired.
 
Enter the number of shares (which represents no. of votes) as on the cut-off date under ‚Favour/Against™. 
You may also choose the option ‚Abstain™ and the shares held will not be counted under ‚Favour/Against™.
viii)
 
If you wish to view the entire Resolution details, click on the ‚View Resolutions™ File Link.
ix)
 
After selecting the appropriate option i.e. Favour/Against as desired and you have decided to vote, click 
on ﬁSUBMITﬂ. A con˜rmation box will be displayed. If you wish to con˜rm your vote, click on ﬁYESﬂ, else 

to change your vote, click on ﬁNOﬂ and accordingly modify your vote.
x)
 
Once you con˜rm your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify or change your vote 
subsequently.
xi)
 
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you by clicking on ﬁPrintﬂ option on the voting page.
xii)
 
Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than Individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) and Custodian are required to log 
on to e-Voting system of LIIPL: 
https://instavote.linkintime.co.in
 and register themselves as
 
‚Custodian / 
Mutual Fund / Corporate Body™.
 
They are also required to upload a scanned certi˜ed true copy of the board resolution /authority letter/ 

power of attorney etc. together with attested specimen signature of the duly authorised representative(s) 

in PDF format in the
 
‚Custodian / Mutual Fund / Corporate Body™ login 
for the Scrutinizer to verify 
the same.
xiii)
 
During the voting period, shareholders can login any number of time till they have voted on the 
resolution(s) for a particular ﬁEventﬂ.
xiv)
 
Shareholders holding multiple folios/demat account shall choose the voting process separately for each 
of the folios/demat account.
xv)
 
In case the shareholders have any queries or issues regarding e-voting, 
you may refer the Frequently 
Asked Questions (ﬁFAQsﬂ) and Instavote e-Voting manual available at 
https://instavote.linkintime.co.in
, 
under Help section or write an email to 
insta.vote@linkintime.co.in
 or Call us
 
:-
 
Tel : 022 - 49186000.
 
xvi)
 
General Instructions:
  
a)
 
 
The voting rights of members shall be in proportion to their shares in the paid up equity share 
capital of the Company as on the cut-off date i.e. June 23, 2018. A person, whose name is recorded 

in the register of members or in the register of bene˜cial owners maintained by the depositories as 

on the cut-off date i.e. June 23, 2018 only shall be entitled to avail the facility of remote e-voting or 

voting at the AGM through ballot paper.
  
b)
 
 
Any person, who acquires shares of the Company and becomes a member of the Company after 
dispatch of the Notice and holding shares as of the cut-off date of June 23, 2018, may obtain the 
 
login ID and password by sending a request at 
insta.vote@linkintime.co.in
 or calling on 022-49186000.
  
c)
 
 
Mr. Pratik M. Shah, Practicing Company Secretary (Membership No. FCS 7431), has been appointed 
as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the voting and remote e-voting process in a fair and transparent 

manner.
  
d)
 
 
At the AGM, at the end of the discussion on the resolutions on which voting is to be held, the 
Chairman shall, with the assistance of the Scrutinizer, order voting through ballot paper for all those 

members who are present but have not cast their votes electronically using the remote e-voting 

facility.
  
e)
 
 
The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of voting at the AGM, count the votes cast at 
the AGM and thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote e-voting in the presence of atleast 

two witnesses not in employment of the Company. The Scrutinizer shall submit a consolidated 

Scrutinizer™s Report of the total votes cast in favor of or against, if any, not later than three days after 
6
Notice
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
Item No. 5
The Board of Directors of the Company, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, had approved the 
appointment and remuneration of M/s. B. F. Modi and Associates to conduct the audit of the Cost Records of the 

Company for the ˜nancial year 2018-2019. In terms of provisions of Section 148(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 

read with Rule 14(a)(ii) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the remuneration payable to the Cost 

Auditor along with the reimbursement of expenses incurred towards the audit is required to be rati˜ed by the 

Members of the Company. Accordingly, consent of the Members is sought to ratify the remuneration payable to 

the Cost Auditors.
No Director, Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives, are interested or concerned in the resolution.

The Board recommends the resolution set forth in Item No. 5 for the approval of the members.

Item No. 6

Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani was appointed as an Independent Director of the Company, in accordance to the provisions 
of Section 149, 152 and Schedule IV of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Rules framed thereunder, at 

the 29
th 
Annual General Meeting of the Company held on August 4, 2015 for a term of three years upto the 
conclusion of this 32
nd 
Annual General Meeting.
Since Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani has completed one term as an Independent Director of the Company, she is eligible 

for re-appointment for one more term. Further, based on the Performance Evaluation of the Independent 

Directors, conducted by the entire Board (excluding Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani) on various parameters such as 

performance, leadership, ethics and integrity, Board engagement and time commitment, ability to take balanced 

decisions regarding stakeholders, etc., the Nomination and Remuneration Committee have recommended 
 
re-appointment of Ms.
 
Hiroo Mirchandani for a second term of 5 (˜ve) years upto the conclusion of the 
 
37
th 
Annual General Meeting.
The Company has received declaration from her con˜rming that she meets with the criteria of Independence 

as prescribed under Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 

Requirements) Regulations, 2015. In the opinion of the Board, she ful˜lls the conditions for re-appointment as 

an Independent Director and that she shall not be liable to retire by rotation.
Further, the Company has also received a notice in writing pursuant to the provisions of Section 160 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 from a member proposing her candidature for re-appointment as an Independent Director.
Hence, the Board of Directors of the Company have at their meeting held on May 11, 2018, approved and 
recommended the aforesaid resolution as set forth at Item No. 6 for the approval of the members.
No Director, Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives, except Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani, to whom the resolution 
relates, are interested or concerned in the resolution. 
Item No. 7
The Company was in receipt of requests from Ms. Rajul Manoj Gandhi and Mr.
 
Manoj Kantilal Gandhi, for 
 
re-classi˜cation from promoter / promoter group category to public category under Regulation 31A (2) & (3) of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‚Listing Regulations, 2015™). Details of 

their shareholding in the Company are as under:
Sr. No.
Name of applicants classi˜ed under 

Promoter Group category
No. of 
 
Equity Shares held
% of Shareholding
1
Ms. Rajul Manoj Gandhi
15,303
0.1025
2
Mr. Manoj Kantilal Gandhi
2,210
0.0148
Total
17,513
0.1173
Ms. Rajul Manoj Gandhi is daughter of Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh and sister of Mr.
 
Hiten V. Parekh and Mr. Manish V. 
Parekh, the Promoters of the Company and Mr. Manoj Kantilal Gandhi is husband of Ms. Rajul Manoj Gandhi and 

hold equity shares in the Company as stated in table given above. The aforesaid shareholders are leading their 

lives and occupations independently and are not connected, directly or indirectly, whatsoever, with any activity 

of the Company. Further, the other persons in the promoter/promoter group of the Company do not have any 

control over the affairs or the decision making process of these above referred shareholders. The above referred 

shareholders do not directly or indirectly, exercise control, over the affairs of the Company. They have also never 

held at any time; any position of key managerial personnel in the Company. They also do not have any special 

rights through formal or informal arrangements with the Company or Promoters or any person in the Promoter 

group. They are also never privy to any price sensitive information of the Company.
7
Notice
The proposed re-classi˜cation of the shareholding of the Promoter group mentioned in table given above is 
not pursuant to Regulation 31A (5) or (6) of the Listing Regulation, 2015. However, as a matter of abundant 

precaution, the Board of Directors recommends passing of Special Resolution as set out at Item No. 7 of this 

Notice.
No Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and relatives, except Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh, Mr. Hiten V. Parekh and 
Mr. Manish V. Parekh,and their relatives, are interested or concerned in the resolution.
                    
By order of the Board
                    
For Nilkamal Limited
Place: Mumbai 
                  
Priti P. Dave
Date: May 11, 2018
                
Company Secretary
Important notes to the shareholders:
Some important notes pertaining to dividend and shares of the shareholders are given below. The shareholders 

can access the same on the Company™s website at the below links:
1.
 
The details of dividend 
which has remained unpaid/ unclaimed for the past seven consecutive years can 
be viewed on the Company™s website at http://www.nilkamal.com/unclaimed/investors-zone/unclaimed-

unpaid-dividend/894.
2.
 
The details of the members whose shares have been transferred to the IEPF authority is available on the 
Company™s website at http://www.nilkamal.com/menudetails1/investors-zone/shares-transferred-to-iepf-

suspense-account/893.
3.
 
The details of the members whose shares are liable to be transferred to the IEPF authority is available on 
the Company™s website at http://www.nilkamal.com/menudetails1/investors-zone/shares-transferred-to-

iepf-suspense-account/893.
4.
 
The details of the members holding shares in physical form and the nomination registered against the 
same are available on the Company™s website at http://www.nilkamal.com/unclaimed/investors-zone/

unclaimed-unpaid-dividend/894.
8
Notice
DETAILS OF DIRECTOR SEEKING RE-APPOINTMENT AT THE ENSUING ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Pursuant to Regulation 36 of Securities and Exchange Board of India 
 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh
Director Identi˜cation Number (DIN)
:
00037597
Date of joining the board
:
April 1, 2000
Brief resume of the Director including nature of 
expertise in speci˜c functional areas
:
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh, aged 46 years, has a bachelor™s 

degree in plastic engineering from the University of 

Massachusetts, United States of America. He has on 

his hands rich experience of more than two decades 

in various ˜elds. He handles the operations of the 

Company™s Material Handling business and also oversees 

the operations of various factories.

Mr. Nayan S. Parekh was instrumental in setting up the 

Company™s two Joint Ventures viz. Nilkamal Bito Storage 

Systems Private Limited Œ the Joint Venture with Bito 

Lagertechnik Bittmann GmbH, Germany and Cambro 

Nilkamal Private Limited Œ the Indo US Joint Venture with 

Cambro Manufacturing Co. He also played a prominent 

role in establishing one of the Company™s subsidiary viz. 

NCB-FZE at Ajman.
Relationship of Directors inter-se
:
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh is the son of Mr. Sharad V. Parekh.
Number of shares held in the Company
:
1,750,277
Directorships and Committee memberships held 

in other companies*
:
None
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
Director Identi˜cation Number (DIN)
:
06992518
Date of joining the board
:
November 6, 2014
Brief resume of the Director including nature of 

expertise in speci˜c functional areas
:
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani, aged  56  years, is a Chevening 

Gurukul scholar and has studied Leadership and 

Globalization at the London School of Economics. She is a 

graduate from Shri Ram College of Commerce and an MBA 

in Marketing and Finance from the Faculty of Management 

Studies, Delhi. 
She has held P&L roles primarily in consumer 

goods and healthcare sectors. She currently serves as an 

Independent Director on several corporate boards which 
enables
 
her to cross-pollinate the best of corporate 
governance practices. Ms.
 
Mirchandani
 
brings consumer 
insights and ˜nancial literacy combined with an ability 

to raise strategic issues from her diverse operational 

experience and innate curiosity.
Relationship of Directors inter-se
:
None
Number of shares held in the Company
:
None
Directorships and Committee memberships held 

in other companies*
:
1.
 
Tata Teleservices (Maharashtra) Limited
(i)
 
Audit Committee - Chairman
2.
 
#
Punjab National Bank
(i)
 
Stakeholders™ Relationship Committee Œ 
Chairman
3.
 
Tata Communications Payment Solutions Limited
(i)
 
Audit Committee - Member
4.
 
DFM Foods Limited
(i)
 
Audit Committee Œ Member
5.
 
Religare Health Insurance Company Limited
(i)
 
Audit Committee - Member
6.
 
Roots Corporation Limited
(i)
 
Audit Committee - Member
*Alternate directorship, directorships in Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Section 8 Companies 

and their Committee memberships are excluded. Membership and Chairmanship of only Audit Committees and 

Stakeholders™ Relationship Committees have been included in the aforesaid table.
#
ceased to be a Director of Punjab National Bank with effect from May 2, 2018, and consequently ceased to be 
a member of its committee.
9
Directors™ Report
DIRECTORS™ REPORT
REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO THE SHAREHOLDERS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2018.
Dear Members,

Your Directors are pleased to present the 
32
nd
 Annual Report
 and the Audited Statement of Accounts for the 
˜nancial year ended
 
March 31, 2018.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE: 

The ˜nancial performance of the Company for the ˜nancial year ended
 
March 31, 2018 is summarised below:-
 (
`
 in Lacs)
Particulars
2017-2018
2016-2017
Gross Turnover and Other Income
211,569
210,686
Net Turnover and Other Income
207,890
196,866
Pro˜t before Depreciation and Tax
22,723
21,773
Less: Depreciation on Fixed Assets
4,847
4,882
Pro˜t before Tax
17,876
16,892
Less: Provision for Taxes
6,165
5,046
Pro˜t after Tax
11,711
11,845
Amount Available for Appropriations
42,404
36,340
Less: Appropriations:
i) Interim Dividend
597
597
ii) Final Dividend*
1,045
-
iii) Total Tax on Dividend
170
50
iv) Transfer to General Reserves
3,885
5,000
Leaving a Balance to be carried forward
36,707
30,693
Earnings Per Share (
`
) 
78.58
79.38
Cash Earnings Per Share (
`
) 
111.06
112.09
Book Value per Share (
`
) 
534.31
467.17
*
The ˜nal dividend amounting to 
`
 1,045 lacs is for the ˜nancial year 2016-2017.
YEAR IN RETROSPECT

Revenue from operations of your Company has increased by 5.85% over the previous year to 
`
 210,796 lacs. 
EBIDTA rose by 4.5% from the previous year to 
`
 23,972 lacs. Pro˜t before tax increased by 5.82% over previous 
year to 
`
17,876 lacs, whereas the pro˜t after tax decreased by 1.14% over the previous year to 
`
 
11,711 lacs. The 
plastic business has achieved a volume and value growth of 2% and 6% respectively.

‚@home™ - the Company™s retail business of lifestyle furniture, furnishing and accessories, recorded a turnover of 
`
 21,478 lacs for the current ˜nancial year and also achieved EBIDTA of 
`
 
999.59 lacs. The pro˜t before tax of the 
said business stood at 
`
 
440.13 lacs, an increase of 38% from the previous year. 
RESERVES
The Company proposes to transfer a sum of
`
 3,884.84 lacs to the General Reserve Account out of the pro˜ts 
available.

DIVIDEND

Your Directors are pleased to recommend a Final Dividend of
`
 9 per equity share (90%) for the ˜nancial year 
2017-2018, which is subject to consideration and approval of the Shareholders at the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting of the Company and shall be paid within the statutory period to those members whose names appear 

in the Register of Members as on the date of book closure. Your Company had also declared interim dividend of 

`
 
4 per equity share (40%) on November 10, 2017.
The aforesaid dividend pay-out for year under review is in accordance with the Company™s policy on Dividend 

distribution which is linked to long term growth objectives of your Company to be met by internal cash accruals. 

The Dividend Distribution Policy of the Company can be viewed on the Company™s website at the following 

weblink: 
http://www.nilkamal.com/Images/fckUploaded˜les/˜le/investor/Dividend_Distribution_Policy.pdf
 
The total out˚ow on account of the interim dividend and the proposed ˜nal dividend (including distribution tax, 
surcharge and education cess) shall amount to 
`
 
2,247 lacs for the ˜nancial year 2017-2018.
10
AWARDS AND CERTIFICATIONS 
Your Company has received the following awards/ certi˜cations during the year under review:
-
 
The Company™s Sinnar unit was awarded the ﬁEnergy Ef˜cient Plantﬂ by The Confederation of Indian 
Industry (CII) at its 18
th
 National Award for Excellence in Energy Management 2017.
-
 
All the Company™s plants are re-certi˜ed for the latest ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management Systems from 
TUV-SUD Germany.
-
 
The Company has obtained Environment Management Systems certi˜cations ISO 14001:2004 from 
 
TUV-SUD Germany, for all its plants which shows the Company™s commitment and responsibilities towards 
environmental protection.
-
 
The Company has also obtained Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems certi˜cation 
 
OHSAS 18001:2007 from TUV-SUD Germany for all its plants which shows the Company™s commitment to 

identify, control and eliminate the occupational, health and safety risks in all its processes.
-
 
The Company has received the ﬁBIFMA Compliance Certi˜cationﬂ from the UK Certi˜cation and Inspection 
Limited for its Home, Of˜ce, Educational and Modular Furniture and Mattress range of products. 
 
This certi˜cation is an assurance of meeting quality standards by the Company during its manufacturing 

process.
-
 
The Company has obtained the ﬁSEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMET
A)ﬂ compliance certi˜cation 
from TUV SUD Germany for its Vasona unit, which is an assurance of responsible and ethical business 

practices. 
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
The Company is committed to Corporate Social Responsibility and strongly believes that the business objectives of 
the Company must be in congruence with the legitimate development needs of the society in which it operates. 
The Company™s CSR policy is placed on the Company™s website at 
http://www.nilkamal.com/Images/
fckUploaded˜les/˜le/CSR%20POLICY.pdf
. 

The Company has contributed an amount of 
`
 259.01 lacs towards various CSR activities majorly in the ˜elds of 
education, healthcare and environmental sustainability in lines with its CSR policy, alongwith undertaking other 

activities in terms of Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013. The said activities were carried by the Company 

directly and vide its Implementing Agency viz Nilkamal Foundation - a Section 8 Company.
Further, during the year under review, the Company had also led a cleanliness drive ﬁBlue for Greenﬂ for 
promoting the Swatchh Bharat Abhiyan around the area of its corporate of˜ce.
The Annual Report on CSR activities is annexed herewith as ﬁAnnexure Aﬂ. 

MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENTS

Except as disclosed elsewhere in this Report, no material changes and commitments which could affect the 
Company™s ˜nancial position have occurred between the end of the ˜nancial year of the Company and date of 

this Report.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

As required pursuant to the Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, your Company has prepared a Business 
Responsibility Report for the ˜nancial year 2017-2018. However, as a green initiative, the said Report is hosted 

on the Company™s website, which can be accessed at http://www.nilkamal.com/menudetails/investors-zone/

corporate-governance/358.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS REPORT

A separate section on corporate governance practices followed by the Company, together with a certi˜cate from 
the auditors con˜rming its compliance, forms a part of this Annual Report, as per SEBI Regulations. Further, as 

per Regulation 34 read with Schedule V of the Listing Regulations, a Management Discussion and Analysis report 

is annexed to this report. 
SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES 

During the year under review, your Company has three direct subsidiaries: Nilkamal Foundation in India, Nilkamal 
Eswaran Plastics Private Limited at Sri Lanka and Nilkamal Crates and Bins Œ FZE at UAE and one step-down 

subsidiary: Nilkamal Eswaran Marketing Private Limited at Sri Lanka; and two Joint Venture Companies: Nilkamal 

Bito Storage Systems Private Limited, which is the Indo-German Joint Venture and Cambro Nilkamal Private 

Limited, which is the Indo-US Joint Venture. 
There has been no material change in the nature of business of the said companies. 
Directors™ Report
11
During the year under review, the Company™s subsidiary companies at SriLanka and Ajman have showed subdued 
performance. Further, Nilkamal Foundation Œ a Section 8 Company - is the Company™s Implementing Agency for 

undertaking the CSR activities of the Company, which has contributed towards various institutions/ projects for 

the said purpose. The Company™s German Joint Venture Company has displayed a topline growth and showed 

a satisfactory performance; whereas the US Joint Venture Company has displayed a robust performance, thus 

achieving topline growth as well as pro˜ts.
In terms of proviso to sub section (3) of Section 129 of the Act, the salient features of the ˜nancial statement of 
the subsidiaries is set out in the prescribed form AOC-1, which forms part of the Annual Report.
In accordance with third proviso of Section 136(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, the Annual Report of the Company, 
containing therein its standalone and the consolidated ˜nancial statements has been placed on the website of 

the Company, www.nilkamal.com. Further, as per fourth proviso of the said section, audited annual accounts of 

each of the subsidiary companies have also been placed on the website of the Company, www.nilkamal.com.
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR INVESTMENTS

Your Company has not given any Loans or Guarantees nor has it made any investments covered under the 
provisions of Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013.
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION POLICY OF THE COMPANY 

The Board has, on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, framed a policy 
relating to 
remuneration of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, Senior Management Personnel and other 

employees, alongwith the criteria for appointment and removal of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel 

and Senior Management Personnel of the Company
. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is fully 
empowered to determine /approve and revise, subject to necessary approvals, the remuneration of managerial 

personnel, after taking into account the ˜nancial position of the Company, trends in the industry, quali˜cations, 

experience, past performance and past remuneration, etc. The Non-Executive Directors are paid sitting fees for 

every meeting of the Board and its Committees attended by them. The Nomination and Remuneration policy  of 

the Company is available on the website of the Company at 
http://www.nilkamal.com/Images/fckUploaded˜les/
˜le/investor/Nomination_and_Remuneration_Policy.pdf 
. 
AUDITORS AND AUDITORS' REPORT

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 139 of the Act read with applicable Rules framed thereunder, 
 
M/s.
 
B
 
S
 
R & Co. LLP
, having ICAI Registration No. 101248W/ W-100022 were appointed as the Company™s Statutory 
Auditors at the 28
th
 
Annual General Meeting to hold of˜ce for a period of four years till the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting.

Further, pursuant to the provisions of Section 139, they are eligible for re-appointment as Auditors for one more 
term of ˜ve consecutive years, from the conclusion of the ensuing Annual General Meeting till the conclusion of 

the 37
th
 Annual General Meeting. 
M/s. B
 
S
 
R & Co. LLP being eligible have expressed their willingness to such re-appointment as the Statutory 
Auditors. A certi˜cate from them has been received to the effect that their appointment as Statutory Auditors, 

if made, would be in accordance to the provisions of Sections 139 and 141 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules 

framed thereunder. 
A resolution seeking their re-appointment forms a part of the Notice convening the 32
nd
 Annual General Meeting 
and the same is recommended for your consideration and approval. 

The notes to accounts referred to in the Auditors' Report are self-explanatory and therefore, do not call for any 
further comments. 
COST AUDITOR
M/s.
 
B. F. Modi and Associates, Cost Accountants, were appointed as the Cost Auditors of the Company to carry 
out audit of the cost records of the Company for the ˜nancial year 2017-2018. They, being eligible and willing 
to be re-appointed as Cost Auditors, were appointed as the Cost Auditors of the Company for the ˜nancial year 

2018-2019 by the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee. 
The resolution seeking rati˜cation of the remuneration to the said Cost Auditors for the ˜nancial year 2018-2019 
is set out in the Notice calling the 32
nd
 Annual General Meeting of the Company.
SECRETARIAL AUDIT
Mr. Pratik M. Shah, Practising Company Secretary was appointed as the Secretarial Auditor of the Company 
to undertake the Secretarial Audit for the ˜nancial year 2017-2018. The Secretarial Audit Report is annexed 

herewith as ﬁAnnexure Bﬂ.
Directors™ Report
12
EXTRACT OF ANNUAL RETURN
As required pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 12 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, the extract of the Annual Return in Form MGT 9 is annexed 

herewith as ﬁAnnexure Cﬂ.
DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL 

The Board of your Company is duly constituted in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with the Listing Regulations. 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 ("Act"), the members at their 29
th
 Annual General Meeting 
had appointed Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani (DIN: 06992518) as an Independent Non-Executive Director to hold of˜ce 
for three consecutive years upto the conclusion of the 32
nd
 Annual General Meeting of the Company. Ms. Hiroo 
Mirchandani is eligible for re-appointment as an Independent Non-Executive Director for another term of ˜ve 

consecutive years i.e. upto the conclusion of the 37
th
 Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, pursuant to the provisions of the Act and based on the recommendation of the Nomination and 

Remuneration Committee, the re-appointment of Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani for a period of ˜ve years is placed for 

the approval of the Members through a Special Resolution at the 32
nd
 Annual General Meeting. 
Further, the Company has received declarations from all the Independent Directors stating that they meet the 

criteria of Independence as given under Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the relevant provisions of 

the Listing Regulations. 
Further, in accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 and the Articles of Association of the Company, 
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh (DIN: 00037597), Director of the Company, retires by rotation at the ensuing Annual General 

Meeting and being eligible has offered himself for re-election.
The required information of the Directors being re-appointed, pursuant to the provisions of the Listing 
Regulations, forms part of the Annual Report.
There was no change in the composition of the Board of Directors and the Key Managerial Personnel, except as 
stated above.
DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT

To the best of their knowledge and belief and according to the information and explanations obtained by them, 
your Directors con˜rm the following statements in terms of Section 134(3)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013:
(a)
 
that in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable accounting standards have been followed and 
that no material departures have been made from the same;
(b)
 
that they have selected such accounting policies and applied them consistently and made judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 

Company at the end of the ˜nancial year and of the pro˜t of the Company for that period;
(c)
 
that they have taken proper and suf˜cient care for the maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 

for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
(d)
 
that the annual ˜nancial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis; 
(e)
 
that they have laid down internal ˜nancial controls to be followed by the Company and that such internal 
˜nancial controls are adequate and were operating effectively;
(f)
 
that they have devised proper systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and 
that such systems were adequate and operating effectively.
CASH FLOW AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
As required under the Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, a cash ˚ow statement is part of the Annual Report 
2017-2018. Further, the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the ˜nancial year 2017-2018 are 

prepared in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Act, Accounting Standards and as prescribed by 

Listing Regulations. The said Financial Statements have been prepared on the basis of the audited ˜nancial 

statements of the Company, its subsidiaries and joint venture companies as approved by their respective Boards 

of Directors.
ADEQUACY OF RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 

The Board of Directors have adopted an Enterprise Risk Management Policy framed by the Company, which 
identi˜es the risk and lays down the risk minimization procedures. These procedures are periodically reviewed to 

ensure that the executive Management controls risk through means of a properly de˜ned framework.
Directors™ Report
13
VIGIL MECHANISM / WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY
The Company has in place a Whistle Blower Policy with a view to provide a mechanism for its Directors/ employees 
to approach the Chairman of the Audit Committee, in case of any grievances or concerns related to fraud and 

mismanagement, if any. The details of the said Policy is explained in the Corporate Governance Report and also 

posted on the website of the Company.
REPORTING OF FRAUDS

There have been no instances of fraud reported by the Statutory Auditors under Section 143(12) of the Act and 
Rules framed thereunder either to the Company or to the Central Government.
DISCLOSURE AS PER SEXUAL HARASSMENT OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, PROHIBITION 
AND REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013
An Internal Complaints Committee has been constituted by the Company in line with the provisions of Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and the Rules thereunder 

to redress complaints received on sexual harassment. During the ˜nancial year under review, the Company has 

not received any complaints of sexual harassment.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

Your Company has formulated a Policy on materiality of dealing with related party transactions and the 
same has been hosted on its website at http://www.nilkamal.com/Images/fckUploaded˜les/˜le/Related_Party_

Transactions_Policy.pdf.
All the related party transactions are placed before the Audit Committee for their review and approval. Further, 
prior omnibus approval of the Audit Committee is obtained for related party transactions of repetitive nature 

and entered into in the ordinary course of business at an arms™ length basis. 
Further, the Company has not entered into any material related party transaction during the year under review. 

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 

Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and Listing Regulations, 2015 the Board of Directors has 
undertaken an annual evaluation of its own performance, performance of its various Committees and individual 

Directors. The details of the said evaluations have been mentioned in the Report on Corporate Governance.
TRANSFER TO IEPF

Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (ﬁThe Rulesﬂ), the Company had sent individual 

notices and also advertised in the newspapers seeking action from the shareholders who have not claimed their 

dividends for past seven consecutive years i.e for ˜nal dividend of the ˜nancial year ended 2009-2010, and 

thereafter, had transferred such unpaid or unclaimed dividends and corresponding 32,113 equity shares held by 

263 shareholders to the IEPF Authority on November 28, 2017. 
Shareholders /claimants whose shares, unclaimed dividend, have been transferred to the aforestated IEPF 
Suspense Account or the Fund, as the case may be, may claim the shares or apply for refund by making an 

application to the IEPF Authority in Form IEPF-5 (available on http://www.iepf.gov.in) along with requisite fee as 

decided by the IEPF Authority from time to time. 
Further, the Company shall be transferring the unclaimed Dividend for the ˜nancial year 2010-2011 to the IEPF 
Account on or before September 26, 2018. The Company shall also be transferring the shares, on which the 

dividend has remained unclaimed for a period of seven consecutive years, to the IEPF Account simultaneously on 

the same date. The Company has sent individual letters to the shareholders for claiming the said dividend and 

has also advertised the same in the newspapers in accordance to the Rules. Members are therefore requested to 

ensure that they claim the dividends referred above, before they are transferred to the said Fund. 
Details of shares /shareholders in respect of which dividend has not been claimed, are provided on our website 
at http://www.nilkamal.com/unclaimed/investors-zone/unclaimed-unpaid-dividend/894.
 
The shareholders are 
therefore encouraged to verify their records and claim the dividends of all the earlier seven years, if not claimed.

COMPLIANCE WITH SECRETARIAL STANDARDS ON BOARD AND GENERAL MEETINGS

During the ˜nancial year, your Company has complied with applicable Secretarial Standards issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
STATUTORY INFORMATION 

The information on conservation of energy, technology absorption and foreign exchange earnings and outgo 
stipulated under Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8 of The Companies (Accounts) 

Rules, 2014, is annexed herewith as ﬁAnnexure Dﬂ.
Directors™ Report
14
In terms of the provisions of Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rules 5(2) and 5(3) of the 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, a statement showing the 

names and other particulars of the employees drawing remuneration in excess of the limits set out in the said 

Rules forms a part of the Annual Report.
Further, the disclosures pertaining to remuneration and other details as required under Section 197(12) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 

Personnel) Rules, 2014 also forms a part of the Annual Report. 
However, having regard to the provisions of Section 136(1) read with its relevant provision of the Companies Act, 
2013, the Annual Report excluding the aforesaid information is being sent to the members of the Company. The 

said information is available for inspection at the Registered Of˜ce of the Company during working hours and 

any member interested in obtaining such information may write to the Company Secretary and the same will be 

furnished without any fee.
Your Company has not accepted Deposits from public falling within the ambit of Section 73 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 during the year under review.
SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY THE REGULATORS OR COURTS

There are no signi˜cant material orders passed by the Regulators / Courts which would impact the going concern 
status of the Company™s operations in future.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Your Directors wish to place on record their sincere appreciation for the encouragement and co-operation 
received by the Company from the Bankers, State Government Authorities, Local Authorities and its Employees 

during the year.
 For and on behalf of the Board
Place: Mumbai
 
Vamanrai V. Parekh
Date: May 11, 2018 
 
Chairman
Directors™ Report
15
Directors™ Report
‚ANNEXURE A™
FORMAT FOR THE ANNUAL REPORT ON CSR ACTIVITIES TO BE INCLUDED IN
THE BOARD™S REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31
ST
 MARCH, 2018.
1.
  
A brief outline of the Company™s CSR policy
, including overview of projects or programs proposed 
to be undertaken and a reference to the web-link to the CSR policy and projects or programs:
  
The Board of Directors 
of your Company had approved the CSR Policy in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013, inter-alia with the chief aim of providing education and healthcare 
facilities and maintaining environmental sustainability.
  
The CSR policy of the Company is available on the website of the Company 
www.nilkamal.com
 and the 
weblink of the same is 
http://www.nilkamal.com/Images/fckUploaded˜les/˜le/CSR%20POLICY.pdf
2.
 
Composition of the CSR Committee is as under:
 
(i)
 
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy
 
(ii)
 
Mr. V
amanrai V. Parekh
 
(iii)
 
Mr. Sharad V
. Parekh
3.
 
Average net pro˜t of the Company for last three ˜nancial years:
 
`
 12,937.00 lacs
4.
 
Prescribed CSR Expenditure (two per cent of the amount as in Item 3 above):
 
`
 258.74 lacs
5.
 
Details of CSR spent during the ˜nancial year:
 
(a)
 
Total amount to be spent for the ˜nancial year:
 `
 258.74 lacs
 
(b)
 
Total amount spend during the ˜nancial year: 
`
 259.01 lacs
 
(c)
 
Amount unspent, if any: NIL
 
(d)
 
Manner in which the amount spent during the ˜nancial year: 
as provided in below table:
( 
` 
in Lacs
)
CSR Project or activity 

identi˜ed
Sector in 

which the 

project is 

covered
Projects or programs 

(1) local area or other 

(2) specify the State 

and District where 

projects or programs 

was implemented
Amount 

outlay 

(budget) 

project or 

programswise
Amount spent on the 

projects or programs 

sub-heads: (1) Direct 

expenditure on 

projects or programs. 

(2) oveheads
Cumulative 

expenditure 

upto the 

reporting 

period
Amount 

spent: Direct 

(D) or through 

Implementing 

Agency (IA)
Distribution of hearing aids
Healthcare
Mumbai in Maharashtra
 1.01
 1.01
 1.01
D- 1.01
Providing education and 

basic necessities
Education
Thane in Maharashtra
 2.00
 2.00
 2.00
D - 2.00
Donation
Donation
--
 256.00
 256.00
 256.00
IA- 256.00
Total
 259.01
 259.01
 259.01
D - 3.01
#
IA - 256.00
#
An amount of 
`
 256.00 lacs was transferred to Nilkamal Foundation - a Section 8 Company, the Implementing Agency for 
undertaking CSR activities of the Company.
16
The following are the CSR activities carried out by Nilkamal Foundation during the ˜nancial year 2017-18, out of the funds 
of the previous year available with it:
( 
` 
in Lacs
)
Sr. 
No.
CSR Project 
or activity 
identi˜ed
Sector in 
which the 
project is 
covered
Projects or 
programs (1) 
local area 
or other (2) 
specify the 
State and 
District where 
projects or 
programs was 
implemented 
Amount 
outlay 
(budget) 
project or 
programswise
Amount spent 
on the projects 
or programs 
sub-heads: 
(1) Direct 
expenditure 
on projects or 
programs. (2) 
oveheads
Cumulative 
expenditure 
upto the 
reporting 
period
Amount spent: 
Direct (D) 
or through 
Implementing 
Agency (IA)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
1.
Contribution 

towars X-ray 

facilities, 

eye care 

and general 

operation 

relief scheme 
Healthcare
Mumbai in 

Maharashtra 

and 

Savarkundla in 

Gujarat
 31.95 
 31.95 
 31.95 
IA - 31.95
2.
Providing 

education 

and basic 

necessities 
Education
Mumbai 

and Pune in 

Maharashtra, 

Dehradun in 

Uttrakhand and 

Bhavnagar in 

Gujarat 
 8.00 
 8.00 
 8.00 
IA - 8.00
3.
Making 

available 

safe drinking 

water
Safe drinking 

water
Gujarat, 

Rajasthan, 

Tamilnadu and 

Karnataka
 17.15 
 17.15 
 17.15 
IA - 17.15
4.
Upliftment 

of a village 
Rural 

development 
Devghar, 

Maharashtra
 10.00 
 10.00 
 10.00 
IA - 10.00
5.
Animal 

Welfare
Animal 

Welfare 
Rajula in 

Gujarat
 11.00 
 11.00 
 11.00 
IA - 11.00
 
Total
78.10 
78.10 
78.10 
IA - 78.10
6.
 
Reasons for not spending the amount: 
Not applicable
7.
  
Responsibility Statement by the 
CSR Committee: 
The implementation and monitoring of the CSR Policy 
is in compliance with the CSR objectives and Policy of the Company.
 
                
For 
and on behalf of the Board
Place: Mumbai 
          
 
Sharad
 
V. Parekh
  
 
 
 
K. R. Ramamoorthy
Date: May 11, 2018 
         
(Managing Director) 
 
 
 
(Chairman of CSR Committee)
Directors™ Report
17
‚ANNEXURE B™
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
For the ˜nancial year ended March 31, 2018
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
The Members,
Nilkamal Limited
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence 
to good corporate practices by 
Nilkamal Limited
 (hereinafter called 
ﬁthe Companyﬂ
). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts / statutory 

compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our veri˜cation of the Company™s books, papers, minutes books, forms and returns ˜led and other 
records maintained by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its of˜cers, agents 

and authorised representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, 

the Company has, during the ˜nancial year ended March 31, 2018, complied with the statutory provisions listed 

hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board processes and compliance mechanism in place to the 

extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
1.
  
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns ˜led and other records maintained 
by the Company for the ˜nancial year ended March 31, 2018, according to the provisions of:
 
i.
 
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the Rules made thereunder;
 
ii.
 
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‚SCRA™) and the Rules made thereunder;
 
iii.
 
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
 
iv.
 
 
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent 
applicable;
 
v.
 
 
The following 
Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (‚SEBI Act™):-
  
a)
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
  
b)
 
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
  
c)
 
 
The Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993, regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client;
  
d)
 
 
The Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirement) 
Regulations, 2015;
2.
  
Provisions of 
the following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India Act, 1992 (‚SEBI Act™) were not applicable to the Company during the ˜nancial year under report:-
 
i.
 
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock 
Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999;
 
ii.
 
 
The Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2009;
 
iii.
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of equity Shares) Regulations, 2009;
 
iv.
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy Back of Securities) Regulations, 1998; and
 
v.
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;
3.
 
The Company has identi˜ed the following laws as speci˜cally applicable to the Company:
 
i.
 
Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974
 
ii.
 
The Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1981
 
iii.
 
The Legal Metrology Act, 2009
Directors™ Report
18
We further report that:
1.
  
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, 
 
Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors 
that took place during the year under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
2.
  
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on 
agenda were sent at least seven days in advance, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further 

information and clari˜cations on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at 

the meeting.
3.
  
Company has duly complied with the Secretarial Standards as issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India.
4.
  
Company is generally regular in compliance with the ˜ling of e-forms with the of˜ce of Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs as required pursuant to the provisions of The Companies Act, 2013 and Rules framed thereunder.
5.
 
Majority decisions are carried through which are captured and recorded as part of the minutes.
6.
  
There are adequate systems and processes 
in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of 
the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
                     
PRATIK M. SHAH
                     
Company Secretaries
Place: Mumbai
 
                  
FCS No.: 7431
Date: May 3, 2018
 
      
 
          
CP No.: 7401
Directors™ Report
19
‚ANNEXURE C™
Directors™ Report
Form No. MGT-9
EXTRACT OF ANNUAL RETURN
as on the ˜nancial year ended on March 31, 2018
[Pursuant to section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 12(1) of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014]
I
REGISTRATION AND OTHER DETAILS
CIN
L25209DN1985PLC000162
Registration Date
December 5, 1985
Name of the Company
Nilkamal Limited
Category / Sub Category of the Company
Public Company limited by Share
Address of the Registered Of˜ce and Contact Details
Survey No.354/2 and 354/3, Near Rakholi Bridge, 
Silvassa Khanvel Road, Vasona, Silvassa 396 230, 

Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli.

Tel No. 0260-2699212 / 13
Whether listed Company
Yes
Name, Address and contact details of Registrar and 

Transfer agent
M/s. Link Intime India Private Limited

C-101, 247 Park, L. B. S. Marg, Vikhroli West, 

Mumbai: 400 083.

Tel: 022-49186000, Fax: 022-49186060

Email id:- rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in
II
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY
All the business activities contributing 10% or more of the total turnover of the Company:

Sr. 
No.
Name and Description of main products/services
NIC Code of the 

product/ service
% to total turnover 

of the Company
1
Manufacture of Plastics Products
222
76.77%
2
Retail sales
471
11.27%
III
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES
Sr. 
No.
Name and Address of the 
Company
CIN/GLN
Holding/
Subsidiary/ 
Associate of 
the Company
% of 
Shares 
held
1
Nilkamal Bito Storage Systems 

Private Limited

77/78, Nilkamal House, 

Road No. 13/14, MIDC, Andheri East, 
 
Mumbai: 400093, Maharashtra, 

India
U63020MH2006PTC161327
Associate
50%
2(6)
2
Cambro Nilkamal Private Limited 

77/78, Nilkamal House, 

Road No. 13/14, MIDC, Andheri East,

Mumbai: 400093, Maharashtra, 

India
U51109MH2010PTC211686
Associate
50%
2(6)
3
Nilkamal Foundation

77/78, Nilkamal House, 

Road No. 13/14, MIDC, Andheri East,

Mumbai: 400093, Maharashtra, 

India
U74999MH2016NPL284394
Subsidiary
98%
2(87)
4
Nilkamal Crates and Bins, FZE

P. O. Box 21008, Ajman Free Zone, 

Ajman, United Arab Emirates.
Foreign Company
Subsidiary
100%
2(87)
5
Nilkamal Eswaran Plastics (Private) 

Limited

328, Madapatha Road, Batakettera, 

Piliyanadala, SriLanka.
Foreign Company
Subsidiary
76%
2(87)
20
6
Nilkamal Eswaran Marketing 
(Private) Limited

328, Madapatha Road, Batakettera, 

Piliyanadala, SriLanka.
Foreign Company
Step-down 
Subsidiary
76%
2(87)
IV  SHAREHOLDING PATTERN (Equity Share Capital Breakup as percentage of Total Equity)
 
(i)
 
Category-wise Shareholding:
Category of 
Shareholders
No. of Shares held at the beginning of 
the year
No. of Shares held at the end of the 
year
% 
change 
during 
the 
year
Demat
Physical
Total
% of 
Total 
Shares
Demat
Physical
Total
% of 
Total 
Shares
A. Promoters
(1) Indian

a) Individual/ HUF
7189259
 -   
7189259
48.18
7186759
 -   
7186759
48.16
-0.02
b) Central Govt
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
c) State Govt.(s)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
d) Bodies Corporate
2376500
 -   
2376500
15.93
2376500
 -   
2376500
15.93
 -   
e) Banks / FI
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
f) Any Other
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Sub-total (A) (1)
9565759
 -   
9565759
64.10
9563259
 -   
9563259
64.09
-0.02
(2) Foreign

a) NRIs - Individuals
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
b) Other Individuals
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
c) Bodies Corporate
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
d) Banks / FI
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
e) Any Other
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Sub-total (A) (2)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Total Shareholding 
of Promoter (A) = (A) 

(1) + (A) (2)
9565759
 -   
9565759
64.10
9563259
 -   
9563259
64.09
-0.02
B. Public Shareholding
1. Institutions

a) Mutual Funds
792500
300
792800
5.31
1656356
300
1656656
11.10
5.79
b) Banks / FI
5283
 - 
5283
0.04
6645
 -   
6645
0.04
0.01
c) Central Govt
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
d) State Govt(s)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
e) 
 
Venture Capital 
Funds
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
f) Insurance Companies
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
g) FIIs
724119
200
724319
4.85
514612
 -   
514612
3.45
-1.41
h) 
 
Foreign Venture 
Capital Fund
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
i) Others (specify)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Sub-total (B)(1):-
1521902
500
1522402
10.20
2177613
300
2177913
14.59
4.39
2. Non- Institutions

a) Bodies Corporate
504967
2185
507152
3.40
439318
885
440203
2.95
-0.45
i) Indian
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
ii) Overseas
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Directors™ Report
21
Directors™ Report
Category of 
Shareholders
No. of Shares held at the beginning of 
the year
No. of Shares held at the end of the 
year
% 
change 
during 
the 
year
Demat
Physical
Total
% of 
Total 
Shares
Demat
Physical
Total
% of 
Total 
Shares
b) Individuals
i) 
 
Individual 
shareholders holding 
nominal share capital 

upto 
`
 1 lac
1530262
193951
1724213
11.55
1720189
148649
1868838
12.52
0.97
ii)  
 
Individual 
shareholders 

holding nominal 

share capital in 

excess of 
`
 1 lac 
1304789
 -   
1304789
8.74
600055
 -   
600055
4.02
-4.72
c) Others (specify)
i) Non-resident Indians
103255
100
103355
0.69
103716
100
103816
0.70
0.00
(ii) 
 
Non-resident (non-
repartriable)
57219
 - 
57219
0.38
21501
 -   
21501
0.14
-0.24
(iii) Trust
4600
 -   
4600
0.03
20
 -   
20
0.00
-0.03
(iv) 
 
Hindu Undivided 
Family
109179
 
-   
109179
0.73
75520
 -   
75520
0.51
-0.23
(v) Clearing Members
18726
 -   
18726
0.13
38383
 -   
38383
0.26
0.13
(vi) Market Maker
1131
 -   
1131
0.01
904
 -   
904
0.01
0.00
(vii) 
 
Foreign Porfolio 
Investor 
(Individual)
4000
 - 
4000
0.03
-
-
-
-
-0.03
(viii) IEPF
 - 
 - 
-
-
32113
 -   
32113
0.22
0.22
Sub-total (B)(2):-
3638128
196236
3834364
25.70
3031719
149634
3181353
21.32
-4.38
Total Public 

Shareholding (B) = 

(B)(1)+(B)(2)
5160030
196736
5356766
35.90
5209332
149934
5359266
35.91
0.02
C. Shares held by
 

Custodian for GDRs 

& ADRs
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Grand Total (A+B+C)
14725789
196736
14922525
100.00
14772591
149934
14922525
100.00
 -   
(ii)
 
Shareholding of Promoters:
Sr. 
No.
Shareholder™s Name
Shareholding at the beginning of 
the year
Shareholding at the end of the 
year
% 
change 
in share 
holding 
during 
the year
No. of 
Shares
% of 
total 
Shares 
of the 
Company
% of Shares 
Pledged / 
encumbered 
to total 
shares
No. of 
Shares
% of total 
Shares 
of the 
Company
% of Shares 
Pledged / 
encumbered 
to total 
shares
1
Nayan S. Parekh jt with Sharad V. 

Parekh
1900277
12.73
-
1750277
11.73
-
-1.01
2
Hiten V. Parekh jt with Smriti H. 

Parekh
1594105
10.68
-
1474105
9.88
-
-0.80
3
Nilkamal Builders Private Limited 
1464000
9.81
-
1464000
9.81
-
0.00
4
Manish V. Parekh jt with Manju M. 

Parekh
1191658
7.99
-
1071658
7.18
-
-0.80
5
Heirloom Finance Private Limited
912000
6.11
-
912000
6.11
-
0.00
6
Vamanrai V. Parekh jt with Nalini 

V. Parekh
889105
5.96
-
889105
5.96
-
0.00
7
Sharad V. Parekh jt with Maya S. 

Parekh
577204
3.87
-
577204
3.87
-
0.00
22
Directors™ Report
Sr. 
No.
Shareholder™s Name
Shareholding at the beginning of 
the year
Shareholding at the end of the 
year
% 
change 
in share 
holding 
during 
the year
No. of 
Shares
% of 
total 
Shares 
of the 
Company
% of Shares 
Pledged / 
encumbered 
to total 
shares
No. of 
Shares
% of total 
Shares 
of the 
Company
% of Shares 
Pledged / 
encumbered 
to total 
shares
8
Purvi N. Parekh jt with Nayan S. 
Parekh 
405124
2.71
-
435124
2.92
-
0.20
9
Manju M. Parekh jt with Manish 

V. Parekh
392796
2.63
-
392796
2.63
-
0.00
10
Vamanrai V. Parekh
144453
0.97
-
144453
0.97
-
0.00
11
Rajul M. Gandhi jt with Manoj K. 

Gandhi
17803
0.12
-
15303
0.10
-
-0.02
12
Mihir H. Parekh jt with Hiten V. 

Parekh
11900
0.08
-
131900
0.88
-
0.80
13
Eashan M. Parekh
11900
0.08
-
131900
0.88
-
0.80
14
Dhanay Nayan Parekh jt with 

Nayan S. Parekh 
11900
0.08
-
131900
0.88
-
0.80
15
Sharad V. Parekh (HUF)
7223
0.05
-
7223
0.05
-
0.00
16
Smriti H. Parekh jt with Hiten V. 

Parekh
7101
0.05
-
7101
0.05
-
0.00
17
Priyanka H. Parekh jt with Hiten 

V. Parekh 
5000
0.03
-
5000
0.03
-
0.00
18
Hiten V. Parekh (HUF)
5000
0.03
-
5000
0.03
-
0.00
19
Natasha Manish Parekh
5000
0.03
-
5000
0.03
-
0.00
20
Dhaniti Nayan Parekh
5000
0.03
-
5000
0.03
-
0.00
21
Manish V. Parekh (HUF)
4500
0.03
-
4500
0.03
-
0.00
22
Manoj K. Gandhi jt with Rajul M. 

Gandhi
2210
0.01
-
2210
0.01
-
0.00
23
Shrimant Holdings Private Limited 
500
0.00
-
500
0.00
-
0.00
TOTAL
9565759
64.10
-
9563259
64.09
-
-0.02
Note: The persons included at Serial Nos. 11 & 22 are independent on which the Promoters have no control of any nature whatosov
er. 
(iii)
 
Changes in Promoter™
s Shareholding:
Name of the Promoter
Shareholding at 

the beginning of 

the year
Date wise increase / decrease in Promoters 
shareholding during the year specifying 
reasons for increase / decrease 
Cumulative 
Shareholding 
during the year 
No. of 

shares 
% of 

total 

Shares 

of the 

Company
Increase / 

Decrease
Reason 

for 

change
No of 

Shares 

Increased / 

Decreased
Date of 

Change in 

Shareholding
No. of 

Shares
% of 

total 

shares 

of the 

Company
1) Vamanrai V. Parekh
144453
0.97
No change
144453
0.97
2) 
 
Vamanrai V. Parekh jt with 
Nalini V. Parekh
889105
5.96
No change
889105
5.96
3) 
 
Sharad V. Parekh jt with 
Maya S. Parekh
577204
3.87
No change
577204
3.87
4) 
 
Hiten V. Parekh jt with 
Smriti H. Parekh
1594105
10.68
Decrease
Transfer
120000
18-10-2017
1474105
9.88
5)
 
Manish V. Parekh jt with 
Manju M. Parekh
1191658
7.99
Decrease
Transfer
120000
18-10-2017
1071658
7.18
6)
 
Nayan S. Parekh jt with 
Sharad V. Parekh
1900277
12.73
Decrease
Transfer
150000
18-10-2017
1750277
11.73
7)
 
Purvi N. Parekh jt with 
Nayan S. Parekh
405124
2.71
Increase
Transfer
30000
18-10-2017
435124
2.92
23
Directors™ Report
Name of the Promoter
Shareholding at 
the beginning of 

the year
Date wise increase / decrease in Promoters 
shareholding during the year specifying 
reasons for increase / decrease 
Cumulative 
Shareholding 
during the year 
No. of 

shares 
% of 

total 

Shares 

of the 

Company
Increase / 

Decrease
Reason 

for 

change
No of 

Shares 

Increased / 

Decreased
Date of 

Change in 

Shareholding
No. of 

Shares
% of 

total 

shares 

of the 

Company
8)
 
Manju M. Parekh jt with 
Manish V. Parekh
392796
2.63
No change
392796
2.63
9)Eashan M. Parekh
11900
0.08
Increase
Transfer
120000
18-10-2017
131900
0.88
10)Natasha M. Parekh
5000
0.03
No change
5000
0.03
11)
 
Dhanay N. Parekh jt with 
Nayan S. Parekh
11900
0.08
Increase
Transfer
120000
18-10-2017
131900
0.88
12)Dhaniti N. Parekh
5000
0.03
No change
5000
0.03
13)
 
Manoj Kantilal Gandhi jt 
with Rajul M. Gandhi
2210
0.01
No change
2210
0.01
14)
 
Rajul Manoj Gandhi jt with 
Manoj K. Gandhi
17803
0.12
Decrease
Transfer
2500
05-04-2017
15303
0.10
15)
 
Mihir H. Parekh jt with 
Hiten V. Parekh
11900
0.08
Increase
Transfer
120000
18-10-2017
131900
0.88
16)
 
Smriti H. Parekh jt with 
Hiten V. Parekh
7101
0.05
No change
7101
0.05
17)
 
Priyanka H. Parekh jt with 
Hiten V. Parekh
5000
0.03
5000
0.03
18)Sharad V. Parekh - Huf
7223
0.05
7223
0.05
19)Hiten V. Parekh - Huf
5000
0.03
5000
0.03
20)Manish V. Parekh - Huf
4500
0.03
4500
0.03
21)
 
Nilkamal Builders Private 
Limited
1464000
9.81
1464000
9.81
22)
 
Heirloom Finance Private 
Limited
912000
6.11
912000
6.11
23)
 
Shrimant Holdings Private 
Limited
500
0.00
500
0.00
(iv)
 
Shareholding Pattern of Top Ten Shareholders (Other than Directors, Promoters and Holders of 
GDR
s and 
ADR
s):
Sr. 
No.
Name & Type of Transaction
Shareholding at the 
beginning of the 
year - 2017
Transactions during the 
year
Cumulative 
Shareholding at 
the end of the 
year - 2018
No. of 
shares 
held
% of total 
shares 
of the 
Company
Date of 
transaction
No. of 
shares
No of 
shares 
held
% of total 
shares 
of the 
Company
1
DSP
 Blackrock Small Cap Fund
143633
0.9625
143633
0.9625
Market Buy
28 Apr 2017
12537
156170
1.0465
Market Buy
26 May 2017
2952
159122
1.0663
Market Buy
30 Jun 2017
31000
190122
1.2741
Market Buy
11 Aug 2017
150000
340122
2.2793
Market Buy
25 Aug 2017
9653
349775
2.3439
Market Buy
01 Sep 2017
16853
366628
2.4569
Market Buy
08 Sep 2017
23494
390122
2.6143
Market Buy
29 Sep 2017
74331
464453
3.1124
Market Buy
06 Oct 2017
22829
487282
3.2654
24
Directors™ Report
Sr. 
No.
Name & Type of Transaction
Shareholding at the 
beginning of the 
year - 2017
Transactions during the 
year
Cumulative 
Shareholding at 
the end of the 
year - 2018
No. of 
shares 
held
% of total 
shares 
of the 
Company
Date of 
transaction
No. of 
shares
No of 
shares 
held
% of total 
shares 
of the 
Company
Market Buy
17 Nov 2017
48275
535557
3.5889
Market Buy
19 Jan 2018
2183
537740
3.6035
Market Buy
26 Jan 2018
18126
555866
3.725
Market Buy
02 Feb 2018
16264
572130
3.834
At the end of the year
572130
3.834
2
HDFC Mutual Fund (Under 5 
different plans Viz Œ HDFC Small 

Cap Fund, HDFC Children's Gift 

Fund - Investment Plan, HDFC 

Retirement Savings Fund-Hybrid-

Equity Plan, HDFC Retirement 

Savings Fund-Hybrid-Debt Plan, and 

HDFC Retirement Savings Fund-

Equity Plan)
88000
0.5897
88000
0.5897
Market Buy
28 Apr 2017
56800
144800
0.9703
Market Buy
26 May 2017
7800
152600
1.0226
Market Buy
02 Jun 2017
11700
164300
1.101
Market Buy
18 Aug 2017
26400
190700
1.2779
Market Buy
24 Nov 2017
46700
237400
1.5909
Market Buy
01 Dec 2017
10000
247400
1.6579
Market Buy
08 Dec 2017
27500
274900
1.8422
Market Buy
05 Jan 2018
19252
294152
1.9712
Market Buy
12 Jan 2018
20000
314152
2.1052
Market Buy
09 Feb 2018
18448
332600
2.2288
Market Buy
16 Feb 2018
8000
340600
2.2825
Market Buy
23 Feb 2018
30000
370600
2.4835
Market Buy
16 Mar 2018
50000
420600
2.8186
At the end of the year
420600
2.8186
3
Mirae Asset Mutual Fund (Under 2 

different schemes viz Mirae Asset 

Emerging Bluechip Fund and Mirae 

Asset Great Consumer Fund)
365101
2.4466
365101
2.4466
Market Buy
07 Apr 2017
50000
415101
2.7817
Market Buy
21 Apr 2017
1681
416782
2.793
Market Buy
28 Apr 2017
15000
431782
2.8935
Market Sell
09 Jun 2017
-4000
427782
2.8667
Market Sell
04 Aug 2017
-7403
420379
2.8171
Market Sell
11 Aug 2017
-61120
359259
2.4075
Market Buy
18 Aug 2017
346
359605
2.4098
Market Sell
08 Sep 2017
-9000
350605
2.3495
Market Sell
02 Feb 2018
-2993
347612
2.3294
At the end of the year
347612
2.3294
4
Dolly Khanna
242965
1.6282
242965
1.6282
Market Sell
19 May 2017
-760
242205
1.6231
25
Directors™ Report
Sr. 
No.
Name & Type of Transaction
Shareholding at the 
beginning of the 
year - 2017
Transactions during the 
year
Cumulative 
Shareholding at 
the end of the 
year - 2018
No. of 
shares 
held
% of total 
shares 
of the 
Company
Date of 
transaction
No. of 
shares
No of 
shares 
held
% of total 
shares 
of the 
Company
Market Sell
26 May 2017
-255
241950
1.6214
Market Buy
09 Jun 2017
475
242425
1.6246
Market Buy
23 Jun 2017
2010
244435
1.638
Market Buy
30 Jun 2017
360
244795
1.6404
Market Buy
07 Jul 2017
615
245410
1.6446
Market Buy
14 Jul 2017
720
246130
1.6494
Market Buy
04 Aug 2017
260
246390
1.6511
Market Sell
11 Aug 2017
-3997
242393
1.6243
Market Sell
18 Aug 2017
-1745
240648
1.6126
Market Sell
25 Aug 2017
-1655
238993
1.6016
Market Sell
01 Sep 2017
-670
238323
1.5971
Market Sell
08 Sep 2017
-3094
235229
1.5763
Market Sell
15 Sep 2017
-310
234919
1.5743
Market Sell
22 Sep 2017
-1053
233866
1.5672
Market Sell
29 Sep 2017
-1290
232576
1.5586
Market Sell
06 Oct 2017
-1225
231351
1.5503
Market Sell
13 Oct 2017
-2724
228627
1.5321
Market Sell
20 Oct 2017
-605
228022
1.528
Market Sell
27 Oct 2017
-1530
226492
1.5178
Market Sell
03 Nov 2017
-2470
224022
1.5012
Market Sell
10 Nov 2017
-1350
222672
1.4922
Market Sell
17 Nov 2017
-620
222052
1.488
Market Buy
01 Dec 2017
1000
223052
1.4947
Market Sell
15 Dec 2017
-225
222827
1.4932
Market Buy
22 Dec 2017
2563
225390
1.5104
Market Buy
05 Jan 2018
1005
226395
1.5171
Market Buy
12 Jan 2018
2505
228900
1.5339
At the end of the year
228900
1.5339
5
Tata Mutual Fund (Under 4 
different plans viz Tata Equity P/E 

Fund, Tata Retirement Savings Fund 

- Progressive Plan, Tata Retirement 

Savings Fund - Moderate Plan and 

Tata Retirement Savings Fund - 

Conservative Plan)
0
0
0
0
Market Buy
21 Apr 2017
20000
20000
0.134
Market Buy
28 Apr 2017
10000
30000
0.201
Market Buy
26 May 2017
24200
54200
0.3632
Market Buy
09 Jun 2017
6000
60200
0.4034
Market Buy
16 Jun 2017
3850
64050
0.4292
Market Buy
23 Jun 2017
100
64150
0.4299
Market Buy
07 Jul 2017
6850
71000
0.4758
26
Directors™ Report
Sr. 
No.
Name & Type of Transaction
Shareholding at the 
beginning of the 
year - 2017
Transactions during the 
year
Cumulative 
Shareholding at 
the end of the 
year - 2018
No. of 
shares 
held
% of total 
shares 
of the 
Company
Date of 
transaction
No. of 
shares
No of 
shares 
held
% of total 
shares 
of the 
Company
Market Buy
04 Aug 2017
1500
72500
0.4858
Market Buy
11 Aug 2017
1000
73500
0.4925
Market Buy
08 Sep 2017
120000
193500
1.2967
Market Buy
15 Sep 2017
22000
215500
1.4441
Market Buy
22 Sep 2017
1000
216500
1.4508
Market Buy
06 Oct 2017
13000
229500
1.5379
Market Buy
20 Oct 2017
1000
230500
1.5446
Market Buy
27 Oct 2017
1000
231500
1.5513
Market Buy
03 Nov 2017
1000
232500
1.558
Market Buy
10 Nov 2017
1000
233500
1.5647
Market Sell
17 Nov 2017
-40000
193500
1.2967
Market Buy
05 Jan 2018
1300
194800
1.3054
Market Buy
09 Feb 2018
7500
202300
1.3557
Market Buy
16 Mar 2018
3000
205300
1.3758
Market Buy
31 Mar 2018
3000
208300
1.3959
At the end of the year
208300
1.3959
6
Premier Investment Fund Limited
134339
0.9002
134339
0.9002
Market Sell
23 Jun 2017
-2915
131424
0.8807
Market Sell
22 Sep 2017
-722
130702
0.8759
At the end of the year
130702
0.8759
7
Cello Pens & Stationery Pvt Ltd
113431
0.7601
113431
0.7601
Market Sell
07 Apr 2017
-4000
109431
0.7333
Market Sell
28 Apr 2017
-2500
106931
0.7166
Market Buy
18 Aug 2017
9896
116827
0.7829
Market Buy
25 Aug 2017
625
117452
0.7871
At the end of the year
117452
0.7871
8
Emerging Markets Core Equity 
Portfolio (The Portfolio) of 
DFA
 
Investment Dimensions Group Inc. 

(
DFAIDG
)
96406
0.646
96406
0.646
Market Sell
28 Apr 2017
-1763
94643
0.6342
Market Sell
12 May 2017
-1224
93419
0.626
Market Sell
04 Aug 2017
-986
92433
0.6194
Market Sell
18 Aug 2017
-1381
91052
0.6102
Market Sell
08 Sep 2017
-481
90571
0.6069
At the end of the year
90571
0.6069
9
Mirae Asset India Small-Mid Cap 

Focus Equity Master Investment 

Trust
57748
0.387
57748
0.387
Market Buy
07 Apr 2017
6211
63959
0.4286
Market Buy
21 Apr 2017
6818
70777
0.4743
Market Buy
19 May 2017
7625
78402
0.5254
At the end of the year
78402
0.5254
27
Directors™ Report
Sr. 
No.
Name & Type of Transaction
Shareholding at the 
beginning of the 
year - 2017
Transactions during the 
year
Cumulative 
Shareholding at 
the end of the 
year - 2018
No. of 
shares 
held
% of total 
shares 
of the 
Company
Date of 
transaction
No. of 
shares
No of 
shares 
held
% of total 
shares 
of the 
Company
10
Dimensional Emerging Markets 
Value Fund
69021
0.4625
69021
0.4625
Market Sell
21 Jul 2017
-1859
67162
0.4501
Market Sell
28 Jul 2017
-2265
64897
0.4349
Market Sell
29 Sep 2017
-1007
63890
0.4281
Market Sell
06 Oct 2017
-4534
59356
0.3978
Market Sell
24 Nov 2017
-808
58548
0.3923
Market Sell
01 Dec 2017
-2675
55873
0.3744
Market Sell
08 Dec 2017
-3346
52527
0.352
At the end of the year
52527
0.352
(v)
 
Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel:
Sr. 
No.
For each of the Directors and KMP
Shareholding at 
the beginning of 
the year - 2017
Transactions during the 
year
Cumulative 
Shareholding at the 
end of the 
year - 2018
No. of 
shares 
held
% of total 
shares 
of the 
Company
Date of 
transaction
No. of 
shares
No of 
shares 
held
% of total 
shares 
of the 
Company
A
Directors:
1
Vamanrai V. Parekh - Chairman
1033558
6.93
-
-
1033558
6.93
2
Sharad V. Parekh - Managing Director
577204
3.87
-
-
577204
3.87
3
Hiten V. Parekh - Jt. Managing Director
1594105
10.68
18 Oct 2017
-120000
1474105
9.88
4
Manish V. Parekh - President and 

Executive Director (Furniture)
1191658
7.99
18 Oct 2017
-120000
1071658
7.18
5
Nayan S. Parekh - President and 

Executive Director (Material Handling)
1900277
12.73
18 Oct 2017
-150000
1750277
11.73
6
Mahendra V. Doshi - Director
7100
0.05
01 Sep 2017
100
7200
0.05
7
K. R. Ramamoorthy - Director
None of these Directors and KMP hold shares in the Company.
8
Mufazzal Federal - Director
9
S. K. Palekar - Director
10
K. Venkataramanan - Director
11
Hiroo Mirchandani - Director
B
Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs):
1
Paresh B. Mehta - Chief Financial Of˜cer
2
Priti P. Dave - Company Secretary
28
Directors™ Report
V
 
INDEBTEDNESS
 
Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding/accrued but not due for payment
(
` 
In Lacs)
Particulars
Secured 
Loans 
excluding 
deposits
Unsecured 
Loans
Deposits
Total 
Indebtedness
Indebtedness at the beginning of 
the ˜nancial year
i
Principal Amount
8,280
 -
 -
8,280
ii
Interest due but not paid
 -
 -
 -
 -
iii
Interest accrued but not due
7
 -
 -
7
Total (i+ii+iii)
8,287
8,287
Change in Indebtedness during the 

˜nancial year
Addition
1,011
20,000*
 -
21,011
Reduction
-
20,000
 -
20,000
Net Change
1,011
 -
 -
1,011
Indebtedness at the end of the 
˜nancial year
i
Principal Amount
9,291
 -
 -
9,291
ii
Interest due but not paid
 -
 -
 -
 -
iii
Interest accrued but not due
22
 -
 -
22
Total (i+ii+iii)
9,313
9,313
 
*Commercial paper
VI
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
A.
Remuneration to Managing Director, Whole Time Director and / or Manager:
 (
`
 In Lacs)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars of Remuneration
Name of MD/WTD/ Manager
Total 
Amount
Sharad V. 
Parekh
Hiten V. 
Parekh
Manish V. 
Parekh
Nayan S. 
Parekh
1
Gross salary
a)
Salary as per provisions contained 

in section 17(1) of the Income Tax 

Act, 1961.
218.68
191.34
177.67
166.38
754.07
b)
Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) of the 

Income Tax Act, 1961
12.33
7.37
8.74
6.20
34.64
c)
Pro˜ts in lieu of salary under section 

17(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961
-
-
-
-
-
2
Stock Option
-
-
-
-
-
3
Sweat Equity
-
-
-
-
-
4
Commission as % of pro˜t
132.99
132.99
132.99
132.99
531.96
5
Others:  
 
National Pension Scheme 
& Provident Fund
-
25.50
23.68
22.18
71.36
Total (A)
364.00
357.20
343.08
327.75
1,392.03
29
Directors™ Report
B.
Remuneration to other Directors
I. Independent Directors:-
  
(
`
 in Lacs)
Particulars of 
Remuneration
Name of Directors
Total 
Amount
Mr. K. R. 
Ramamoorthy
Mr. Mahendra 
V. Doshi
Mr. Mufazzal 
Federal
Mr. S. K. 
Palekar
Mr. K. 
Venkataramanan
Ms. Hiroo 
Mirchandani
Fees for attending board / 
committee meetings
3.80
3.70
3.70
2.30
1.80
2.30
17.60
Commission
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Others, please specify
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
3.80
3.70
3.70
2.30
1.80
2.30
17.60
Total (1)
17.60
II. Other Non-Executive Directors:-
(
`
 in Lacs)
Mr. Vamanrai V. 
Parekh
Total Amount
Fees for attending board / committee meetings
3.30
3.30
Commission
-
-
Others, please specify
-
-
Total (2)
3.30
3.30
Total (B)=(1+2)
20.90
C.
Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel other than MD/ Manager/ WTD
(
`
 in Lacs)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars of Remuneration
Key Managerial Personnel
Total
Paresh Mehta 
Chief Financial 
Of˜cer
Priti Dave 
Company 
Secretary
1
Gross salary
a
Salary as per provisions contained in section 17(1) of the 

Income Tax Act, 1961
117.96
17.20
135.16
b
Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) of the Income Tax Act, 1961
0.32
0.32
0.64
c
Pro˜ts in lieu of salary under section 17(3) of the Income Tax 

Act, 1961
2
Stock Option
-
-
-
3
Sweat Equity
-
-
-
4
Commission (as % of Pro˜t / Others)
-
-
-
5
Others: National Pension Scheme & Provident Fund
7.74
1.39
9.13
Total
126.02
18.91
144.93
VII
PENALTIES/ PUNISHMENT / COMPOUNDING OF OFFENCES (Under the Companies Act, 2013):
No penalties / punishment / compounding of offences were levied under the Companies Act, 2013.
30
Directors™ Report
‚ANNEXURE D™
Information as required under the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
A.
 
CONSERV
ATION OF ENERGY.
  
The Company has successfully maintained ISO 50001 EnMS (Energy Management Systems), which was 
recerti˜ed by TUV-SUD Germany across all its units, which sustained adoption of energy conservation as a 
Company-wide culture.
  
Our continuous endeavour and focus on energy 
savings and constant thirst to conserve natural resources 
have resulted in group energy savings of 4.3% in terms of unit/Kg, which is signi˜cant as it amounts to 

conserving energy resources. 
  
To achieve the above objectives, various projects were undertaken in a systematic manner under the 
Corporate Energy Conservation Cell as listed below: 
 
1.
 
 
Installed 400KW Rooftop Solar Power Generation System, which helped reduce Carbon Emission by 443 
tons.
 
2.
 
 
Installed energy 
ef˜cient screw chiller at Bubble-Guard plant and saved 10% energy on 3000T m/c as 
compared to scroll chillers.
 
3.
 
Installed IR heaters for Bubble-Guard extruder for energy saving.
 
4.
 
Reduction in speci˜c energy consumption by 4% helped to reduce Carbon Emission of 1336 tons.
 
5.
  
The on-going partnership with BETA Wind Energy Farms Private Limited was optimized for its units
 
consumption leading to lower billing by TNEB and reduction of Carbon Emission by 5693 tons.
 
6.
 
 
BEE approved 5 Star rated water pumps were used for cooling towers, resulting in saving energy by more 
than 25%.
 
7.
 
 
Initiatives in reducing 
air pressure and air use resulted in energy saving; and where high pressure was 
essential, a separate small Air Compressor was provided.
 
8.
 
Transparent sheets were used on roof tops to provide natural light in shop ˚oor.
 
9.
 
LED ˜ttings of lower Watts with same Lux, were used to replace T
ube ˜ttings.
 
10.
 
 
Improving energy ef˜ciency, gas consumption, diesel operations at all plants helped in reducing GHG 
Emission.
 
11.
 
 
Energy saving aerogel technology barrel heater jackets were used for Injection Molding Machines to 
reduce heat loss and atmospheric temperature.
  
In keeping with its efforts, your Company will be further investing in solar power at its other plants and in 
turn will drive the system to reduce the power consumption, wherever possible. 
  
Your Company was again awarded the ﬁ18
th
 National Award for Excellence in Energy Management 2017ﬂ for 
its Sinnar unit by ﬁConfederation of Indian Industriesﬂ.
B.
 
TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION.
 
Disclosure of particulars in Form B, with respect to Technology Absorption:
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R & D):
  
Your Company strives to make constant investments towards improvement in its existing product lines and 
undertakes development efforts in that area. Such efforts shall help your Company to achieve the set targets 

in a better manner, within less than required time together with providing improved quality products. This 

has also enhanced the development capabilities of the Company. Your Company has incurred 
`
 335 lacs, i.e. 
0.16 % of total turnover of the Company, towards recurring R
 
and D expenditure. There was no expenditure 
of capital nature towards the same.
 
TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION, ADAPTA
TION AND INNOVATION
 
1.
 
Efforts, in brief, made towards technology absorption, adaptation and innovation.
  
1.
 
 
Installation of latest technology 2 Platen Servo Injection Molding Machine to save cycle time and 
energy. 
  
2.
 
 
Retro˜tting of conventional Injection Moulding machines with latest imported Servo motor driven 
technology resulted in productivity improvement & cost saving.
31
Directors™ Report
  
3.
 
 
Various initiatives on productivity improvement were carried out resulting in 54 successful projects 
under the ﬁV30 Winnerﬂ theme.
  
4.
 
 
Weight reduction, quality improvement, weight optimization projects were also taken under the 
ﬁV30 Winnerﬂ theme resulting in 39 successful projects.
  
5.
 
 
Various initiatives on other cost saving and energy saving resulted in 323 successful projects under 
the ﬁV30 Winnerﬂ theme. 
  
6.
 
 
The total projects completed for the current ˜nancial year was 1511 focussing on lean management 
and cost savings which had direct impact to the bottom line adding to the Company™s pro˜t.
  
7.
 
 
The Company has installed 3 bigger size Injection molding machines with energy saving technology 
which can save up to 50% energy as compared to conventional machines.
 
2. 
 
Bene˜ts derived as a result of the above efforts.

reduce, recycle and reuse waste. 



 
3. 
 
The Company has not imported any technology or process know-how.
  
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO.
  
Total Foreign Exchange used and earned
(
`
 in Lacs)
Particulars
2017-2018
2016-2017
Foreign Exchange Earned
5,817
5,562
Foreign Exchange Used
28,376
23,662
          
For and 
on behalf of the Board
Place: Mumbai 
    
Vamanrai V. Parekh
Date: May 11, 2018
 
Chairman
32
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Directors present the Company™s Report on Corporate Governance for the year ended March 31, 2018.
1.
 
COMPANY
'
S
 
PHILOSOPHY
 
ON
 
THE
 
CODE
 
OF
 
GOVERNANCE
  
The Company™s philosophy of Corporate Governance is to adopt best practices for ef˜cient conduct of its 
business, continued compliances of law and adherence to ethical standards to enhance stakeholder™s value 
and interest on sustainable basis and to build an environment of trust and con˜dence for its stakeholders.
  
In India, Corporate Governance standards for listed companies are regulated by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations). 

The Company has adopted best practices mandated in the Listing Regulations. A Report on compliance with 

Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations is given below:
2.
 
BOARD
 
OF
 
DIRECTORS
 
The
 
Composition
 
of
 
the
 
Board
  
The
 
Board
 
of
 
Directors
 (
Board
) 
has
 
a
 
˜duciary
 
responsibility
 
to
 
act
 
as
 
a
 
trustee
 
to
 
protect
 
the
 
interest
 
of
 
the
 
shareholders
 
through
 
strategic
 
supervision
 
of
 
the
 
Company
. 
The
 
Board
 
also
 
provides
 
direction
 
and
 
exercises
 
appropriate
 
control
 
to
 
ensure
 
that
 
the
 
Company
 
is
 
governance
 
compliant
.
  
The
 
Company
™
s
 
Board
 
is
 
a
 
balanced
 
mix
 
of
 
Executive
 
and
 
Non
-
Executive
 
Directors
, 
all
 
having
 
diverse
 
experience
 
and
 
expertise
 
in
 
their
 
˜elds
 
of
 
operation
. 
They
 
take
 
active
 
part
 
at
 
the
 
Board
 
and
 
Committee
 
Meetings
 
by
 
providing
 
valuable
 
guidance
 
to
 
the
 
Management
 
on
 
various
 
aspects
 
of
 
business
, 
policy
 
direction
, 
governance
, 
compliance
 
etc
. 
which
 
adds
 
value
 
in
 
the
 
decision
 
making
 
process
 
of
 
the
 
Board
 
of
 
Directors
.
  
The
 
composition
 
of
 
the
 
Board
 
also
 
complies
 
with
 
the
 
provisions
 
of
 
the
 
Companies
 
Act
, 
2013
 
and
 
Regulation
 
17
 
of
 
Listing
 
Regulations
. 
As
 
at
 
the
 
end
 
of
 
corporate
 
˜nancial
 
year
 
2018
, 
the
 
total
 
Board
 
strength
 
comprises
 
of
 
Eleven
 
Directors
 
on
 
the
 
Board
, 
out
 
of
 
which
 
Seven
 
are
 
Non
-
Executive
 
Directors
 
including
 
a
 
Non
-
Executive
 
Chairman
, 
and
 
the
 
rest
 
are
 
Executive
 
Directors
.
  
Attendance
 
of
 
Directors
 
at
 
Board
 
Meetings
 
and
 
the
 
last
 
Annual
 
General
 
Meeting
 (
AGM
) 
and
 
number
 
of
 
directorships
 / 
committee
 
memberships
 
held
 
by
 
the
 
Directors
 
in
 
other
 
Companies
:
Name of the Director
Category
Attendance
Number of 
directorship in 
other public 
Companies as 
on March 31, 
2018*
Committee Chairmanship and 
Membership*
Shareholding 
of Non-
Executive 
Directors as 
at March 31, 
2018
Board 
meeting
AGM 
held on 
August 8, 
2017
Chairmanship**
Membership**
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani

DIN: 06992518
Independent Non-

Executive Director
4
No
6
2
4
Nil
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy

DIN: 00058467
Independent Non-

Executive Director
4
Yes
3
2
2
Nil
Mr. K. Venkataramanan

DIN: 0001647
Independent Non-

Executive Director
3
No
4
-
1
Nil
Mr. Mahendra V. Doshi

DIN: 00123243
Independen tNon-

Executive Director
4
No
4
1
2
7,200
Mr. Mufazzal Federal

DIN: 03409798
Independent Non-

Executive Director
4
No
-
-
-
Nil
Mr. S. K. Palekar

DIN: 01723670
Independent Non-

Executive Director
4
No
1
1
1
Nil
Mr. Hiten V. Parekh

DIN: 00037550

Joint Managing Director
Executive Director
4
Yes
-
-
-
NA
Mr. Manish V. Parekh

DIN: 00037724

President and Executive 

Director (Furniture)
Executive Director
4
Yes
-
-
-
NA
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh

DIN: 00037597

President and Executive 

Director (Material 

Handling)
Executive Director
4
Yes
-
-
-
NA
33
Name of the Director
Category
Attendance
Number of 
directorship in 
other public 
Companies as 
on March 31, 
2018*
Committee Chairmanship and 
Membership*
Shareholding 
of Non-
Executive 
Directors as 
at March 31, 
2018
Board 
meeting
AGM 
held on 
August 8, 
2017
Chairmanship**
Membership**
Mr. Sharad V. Parekh
DIN: 00035747

Managing Director
Executive Director
4
Yes
-
-
-
NA
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh

DIN: 00037519

Chairman
Non-Executive 

Director
4
Yes
-
-
-
1,033,558
 
*
 
Excludes
 
Directorship and Committee chairmanship / membership in Private Companies, Foreign Companies, Section 8 
Companies and Nilkamal Limited.
 
**
 
Only Audit Committee and Stakeholders™ Relationship Committee of Public Limited Company (whether listed or not) has 
been consider as per Regulation 26(1) of the Listing Regulations.
 
Separate Meeting of Independent Directors:
  
As required under the Listing Regulations, the Independent Directors held one separate meeting on 
 
January 25, 2018. The Independent Directors discussed and reviewed the matters speci˜ed in Regulation 25(4) 

of the Listing Regulations.
  
Further, as a part of familiarization programme, t
he Board members are provided with necessary documents, 
reports, internal policies, 
amendments to the various enactments, statutory laws, etc., 
to enable them to 

familiarise themselves with the Company's operations. Periodic presentations are made at the Board and 

Committee Meetings, on business and performance updates of the Company, business strategy and business 
risks. The details pertaining to the familiarisation program
 
can
 
be
 
accessed
 
at
 
the
 
Company™s
 
weblink
 
at
 
 
http://www.nilkamal.com/Images/fckUploaded˜les/˜le/familiration_programme.pdf
.
  
In addition to the same, any new Director is welcomed to the Board of Directors of the Company by sharing 
a tool kit containing various policies of the Company for his reference
.
 
Number of Board Meetings held and the dates
 on which held:
  
There were four Board Meetings of the Company held during the ˜nancial year 2017-2018 on the following 
dates: May 11, 2017, August 7, 2017, November 10, 2017 and January 25, 2018.
  
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh and Mr. Sharad V. Parekh are brothers. Further, Mr. Hiten V. Parekh and Mr. Manish 
V. Parekh are sons of Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh and Mr. Nayan S. Parekh is son of Mr. Sharad V. Parekh.
 
Except the above there are no inter-se relationships among the Directors.
3.
 
AUDIT
 
COMMITTEE
  
The composition of the Audit Committee and the scope of its activities and powers are in conformity with 
and includes the areas prescribed under the Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations and Section 177 

of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules framed thereunder. The Audit Committee comprises of four 
 
Non-Executive Directors who are well versed with the ˜nancial matters and corporate laws. The Audit 

Committee met four times on May 11, 2017, August 7, 2017, November 10, 2017 and January 25, 2018. The 

necessary quorum was present for all the meetings. The Chairman of the Audit Committee was present at 

the last Annual General Meeting of the Company held on August 8, 2017.
 
Details of the composition of the Audit Committee and attendance of the Members are as follows:
Name of the Director
Category
Position
No. of Meetings
Held
Attended
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy
Independent, Non- Executive
Chairman
4
4
Mr. Mahendra V. Doshi
Independent, Non-Executive
Member
4
4
Mr. Mufazzal Federal
Independent, Non-Executive
Member
4
4
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh
Non-Executive
Member
4
4
 
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
  
The Audit Committee invites the Managing Director, Executive Directors, Senior Executives representing
 
various functional areas of the Company, Statutory Auditors and Internal Auditors at its Meetings.
34
 
Terms of Reference:
  
The terms of reference and role of the Audit Committee are as per guidelines set out in the Listing Regulations 
and Section 177 of Companies Act, 2013. The Committee meets periodically and 
inter alia 
reviews:
 
1.
 
Audited and Unaudited ˜nancial results;
 
2.
 
Internal Audit reports, risk management policies and reports on internal control system;
 
3.
 
 
Discusses the larger issues that are of vital concern to the Company including adequacy of internal 
controls and adequacy of provisions for liabilities, etc.;
 
4.
 
 
Transactions proposed to be entered into by the Company with related parties and approves such 
transactions including any subsequent modi˜cations thereto;
 
5.
 
Functioning of Whistle Blower Policy; and
 
6.
 
 
Recommends proposals for appointment and remuneration payable to the Statutory Auditor and 
Internal Auditors and also the proposal for appointment of Chief Financial Of˜cer. The Audit Committee 
also reviews adequacy of disclosures and compliance with all relevant laws.
  
In addition to the aforesaid, the Committee also looks into the matters as are speci˜cally referred to it by the 
Board of Directors besides looking into the mandatory requirements of the Listing Regulations and the Act.
4.
 
NOMINATION
 
AND
 
REMUNERATION
 
COMMITTEE
  
The
 
Nomination
 
and
 
Remuneration
 
Committee
 
presently
 
consists
 
of
 
three
 
Non
-
Executive
 
Directors
, 
all
 
being
 
Independent
. 
The
 
Committee
 
met
 
two
 
times
 
in
 
2017-2018
 
on
 
May
 
11
, 
2017
 
and
 
January
 
25
, 
2018
. 
The
 
necessary
 
quorum
 
was
 
present
 
for
 
both
 
the
 
meetings
. 
The
 
Chairman
 
of
 
the
 
Nomination
 
and
 
Remuneration
 
Committee
 
was
 
present
 
at
 
the
 
last
 
Annual
 
General
 
Meeting
 
of
 
the
 
Company
 
held
 
on
 
August
 
8
, 
2017
. 
The
 
composition
 
of
 
the
 
Committee
 
during
 
2017-2018
 
and
 
the
 
details
 
of
 
meetings
 
held
 
and
 
attended
 
by
 
the
 
members
 
are
 
as
 
under
:
Name of the Director
Category
Position
No. of Meetings
Held
Attended
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy
Independent, Non- Executive
Chairman
2
2
Mr. Mahendra V. Doshi
Independent, Non-Executive
Member
2
2
Mr. Mufazzal Federal
Independent, Non-Executive
Member
2
2
 
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
 
The broad terms of reference of Nomination and Remuneration Committee are:
 
1)
 
 
To formulate the criteria for determining quali˜cations, competencies, positive attributes and 
independence for appointment of a Director and recommend to the Board, policies relating to the 

remuneration of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other employees;
 
2)
 
 
To identify persons who are quali˜ed to become Directors and who may be appointed in senior 
management in accordance with the criteria laid down and recommend to the Board their appointment 

and removal;
 
3)
 
To formulate the criteria for evaluation of the Independent Directors and the Board;
 
4)
 
To devise a policy on Board diversity.
 
Performance evaluation:
  
The Board of Directors has carried out an annual evaluation of its own performance, its Committees and 
individual Directors pursuant to the requirements of the Act and the Listing Regulations, after taking into 

consideration the ‚Guidance Note on Board Evaluation™ dated January 5, 2017 issued by SEBI.
  
Further, the Independent Directors, at their exclusive meeting held on January 25, 2018 reviewed the 
performance of the Board, its Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and other items as stipulated under the 

Listing Regulations, on the broad parameters laid down under the Company™s Nomination and Remuneration 

Policy.
 
Remuneration to Directors:
  
The Company has a well-de˜ned policy for 
the remuneration of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and 
other employees. The said policy was approved by the Board at its meeting held on May 12, 2015 based upon 

the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
35
  
The Board of Directors / Nomination and Remuneration Committee is authorized to decide the remuneration 
of the Executive Directors, subject to the approval of the members. The remuneration structure comprises of 
salary, perquisites, retirement bene˜ts as per law / rules and commission which is linked to the performance 

of the Company.
  
Annual increments are decided 
by the Board of Directors within the salary scale approved by the members. 
Each of the Executive Directors is entitled to commission to the extent of 1% of the net pro˜ts of the 

Company over and above the net pro˜ts of 
`
 50.00 crores.
  
The agreement with the Executive Directors is for a speci˜ed period. Either party to the agreement is entitled 
to terminate the agreement by giving not less than three month™s notice in writing to the other party. Further, 

in case of termination of agreement by the Company, a severance fee of three month™s remuneration shall 

be paid.
 
The Company does not have a scheme for grant of stock options.
  
The Company has a policy for determining the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company. 
The Company remunerates its Non-Executive Directors by way of sitting fees for attending each meeting of 

the Board and / or Committee, and the same is paid within the limits laid down in the Companies Act, 2013 

read with the Rules framed thereunder. The remuneration determined for the Non-Executive Directors is 

subject to the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and approval of the Board 

of Directors.
  
The Non-Executive Directors are paid sitting fees of  
` 
50,000 per meeting for attending Board Meetings, 
 
`
 30,000 per meeting for attending the meetings of Audit Committee and separate meeting of Independent 

Directors, 
`
 10,000 per meeting for attending the meetings of Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
  
The details of remuneration paid to the Dir
ectors during the ˜nancial year 2017-2018 are given 
below:
Name of the Director
Salary & 
perquisites 
(
`
)
Commission
(
`
)
Sitting 
fees
(
`
)
Total
(
`
)
No. of Shares held 
as on
31-03-2018
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
N.A.
N.A.
230,000
230,000
Nil
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy
N.A.
N.A.
380,000
380,000
Nil
Mr. K. Venkataramanan
N.A.
N.A.
180,000
180,000
Nil
Mr. Mahendra V. Doshi
N.A.
N.A.
370,000
370,000
7,200
Mr. Mufazzal S. Federal
N.A.
N.A.
370,000
370,000
Nil
Mr. S. K. Palekar
N.A.
N.A.
230,000
230,000
Nil
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh
N.A.
N.A.
330,000
330,000
1,033,558
Mr. Hiten V. Parekh
22,421,081
13,298,909
N.A.
35,719,990
1,474,105
Mr. Manish V. Parekh
21,009,540
13,298,909
N.A.
34,308,449
1,071,658
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh
19,476,093
13,298,909
N.A.
32,775,002
1,750,277
Mr. Sharad V. Parekh
23,100,963
13,298,909
N.A.
36,399,872
577,204
 
Notes:
 
1.
 
Commission referred to above is the commission for the ˜nancial year 2016-2017.
 
2.
 
 
Sitting fees include fees for attending the Board Meetings, Audit Committee Meetings, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee Meetings, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Meeting and 

Independent Director™s Meeting.
 
3.
 
 
An
 amount of 
`
 5.71 crores has been provided in the accounts for the year under review, for payment of 
commission to the Executive Directors for the ˜nancial year 2017-2018. The said commission is linked to 

the performance of the Company i.e. it shall be paid to the extent of 1% of the net pro˜ts (as per Section 

198) of the Company over and above the net pro˜ts of 
` 
50.00 crores to each of the Executive Directors.
5.
 
STAKEHOLDERS
™ 
RELATIONSHIP
 
COMMITTEE
  
The
 
Company
™
s
 
Stakeholders
™ 
Relationship
 
Committee
 
is
 
responsible
 
for
 
the
 
satisfactory
 
redressal
 
of
 
investor
 
complaints
. 
During
 
the
 
year
 
under
 
review
, 
the
 
Committee
 
met
 
four
 
times
 
on
 
June
 
16
, 
2017
, 
September
 
14
, 
2017
, 
December
 
12
, 
2017
 
and
 
March
 
9
, 
2018
. 
The
 
composition
 
and
 
details
 
of
 
the
 
meetings
 
attended
 
by
 
the
 
members
 
are
 
given
 
below
:
36
Name of the Director
Category
Position
No. of Meetings
Held
Attended
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh
Non-Executive
Chairman
4
4
Mr. Sharad V. Parekh
Executive
Member
4
4
Mr. Hiten V. Parekh
Executive
Member
4
4
  
Ms. Priti P. Dave, Company Secretary is the ﬁCompliance Of˜cerﬂ who oversees the redressal of the investors™ 
grievances.
 
Terms of Reference:
 
The Committee shall act in accordance with the terms of reference which shall, inter alia, include:
 
a)
 
To speci˜cally look into the mechanism of redressal of grievances of shareholders;
 
b)
 
 
The Committee shall consider and resolve the grievances of the shareholders of the Company including 
complaints related to transfer of shares, non-receipt of annual report and non-receipt of declared 
dividends.
  
During the year, the Company had received 7 complaints from shareholders, which were disposed-of
f within 
due time and there were no complaints which had remained unresolved at the end of the year. Apart from 

the aforestated complaints, 1 complaint was received towards the end of March 2017 and the same was 

resolved on April 4, 2017. Further, no investor grievance has remained unattended / pending for more than 

thirty days.
  
The Company has assigned its share transfer and dematerialisation work to M/s. Link Intime India Private 
Limited, Registrar and Transfer Agents. As on March 31, 2018 there were no dematerialisation requests and 

share transfer applications pending for approval with the Registrars.
6.
 
GENERAL
 
BODY
 
MEETINGS
  
Details of 
the location of the last three Annual General Meetings (AGM) and details of the special 
resolutions passed:
Annual 
General 
Meeting 
(AGM)
Date
Time
Venue
Special Resolution Passed
31
st
 AGM
08-08-2017
12.00 noon
Survey No. 354/2 and 
354/3, Near Rakholi 
Bridge, Silvassa - Khanvel 
Road, Vasona, Silvassa Œ 
396 230, Union Territory 
of Dadra & Nagar Haveli.
NIL
30
th
 AGM
11-08-2016
NIL
29
th
 AGM
04-08-2015
1.
 
Reappointment of Mr.
 
Sharad 
V. Parekh (DIN: 00035747), as 

the Managing Director of the 

Company for a period of ˜ve years 

with effect from April 1, 2015 upto 

March 31, 2020.
  
All special resolutions set out in the Notices for the Annual General Meetings were passed by the Members 
at the respective meetings with requisite majority.
 
Postal Ballots
 
No resolutions were passed through postal ballot during the last ˜nancial year.
7.
 
DISCLOSURES
 
a)
 
Related
 
Party
 
Transactions
   
The Company has formulated a policy on Materiality of and dealing with Related Party Transactions. The 
Policy is available on the website of the Company at 
http://www.nilkamal.com/Images/fckUploaded˜les/
˜le/Related_Party_Transactions_Policy.pdf
.
   
There are no materially signi˜cant transactions with the related parties that had potential con˚ict with 
the interest of the Company. All these transactions are in the normal course of business and are carried 

out on an arm™s length basis.
37
 
b)
 
Compliance
   
There was 
no non-compliance by the Company and no penalties or strictures were imposed on the 
Company by the Stock Exchanges or Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), or any statutory 
authority on any matter related to the capital markets during the last three years.
 
c)
 
Whistle
 
Blower
 
Policy
   
Pursuant to Section 177(9) and (10) of the Companies Act, 2013 and the provisions of Listing Regulations, 
the Company has a Whistle Blower Policy for establishing a vigil mechanism for Directors and employees 

to report genuine concerns regarding unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud or violation of 

the Company™s Code of Conduct. The said mechanism also provides for adequate safeguards against 

victimisation of persons who use such mechanism and makes provision for direct access to the Chairperson 

of the Audit Committee in appropriate or exceptional cases. We af˜rm that no employee of the Company 

was denied access to the Audit Committee. The said Whistle Blower Policy has been hosted on the 

website of the Company at 
http://www.nilkamal.com/Images/fckUploaded˜les/˜le/Nilkamal_Whistle_
Blower_Policy.pdf
.
 
d)
  
Details
 
of
 
compliance
 
with
 
mandatory
 
requirements
 
and
 
adoption
 
of
 
the
 
non
-
mandatory
 
requirements
 
under
 
the
 
Listing
 
Regulations
   
During the year, the Company has complied with the mandatory requirements as stipulated in Listing 
Regulations.
   
With respect to the compliance with the non-mandatory requirements pursuant to Regulation 27(1) of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has adopted the following non-mandatory requirements:
  
i)
  
The Chairman being Non-Executive Director, an of˜ce is made available for his use during his visits 

to the Company and is reimbursed the expenses incurred towards the performance of his duties.
  
ii)
  
During the year under review, there is no audit quali˜cation on the Company™s ˜nancial statements. 

Your Company continues to adopt best practices to ensure a regime of unmodi˜ed audit opinion.
  
iii)
 
The position of Chairperson of Board and the Managing Director are separate.
  
iv)
  
The Internal Auditor of the Company reports to the Chief Financial Of˜cer and has direct access to 

the Audit Committee.
 
e)
 
Material
 
Subsidiary
   
During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company does not have any material listed/unlisted subsidiary 
companies as de˜ned in Regulation 16 of the Listing Regulations. The Company has framed the policy 

for determining material subsidiary as required by under Regulation 16 of the Listing Regulation and 
the same is disclosed on the
 
Company™s
 
website.
 
The
 
weblink
 
is
 
http://www.nilkamal.com/Images/
fckUploaded˜les/˜le/Policy_on_determining_material.pdf
.
 
f)
Commodity Price Risk / Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging activities
   
The Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk on account of import and export transactions entered. 
The Company is proactively mitigating these risks by entering into commensurate hedging transactions 

as per the Company™s Enterprise Risk Management Policy.
8.
 
CEO
 / 
CFO
 
CERTIFICATION
  
The Managing Director and Chief Financial Of˜cer (CFO) have issued certi˜cate pursuant to the provisions 
of Regulation 17(8) of the Listing Regulations certifying that the ˜nancial statements do not contain any 

materially untrue statement and these statements represent a true and fair view of the Company™s affairs.
9.
 
MEANS
 
OF
 
COMMUNICATION


unaudited quarterly ˜nancial results are announced within forty-˜ve days of the close 
of the quarter and its audited annual ˜nancial results are announced within sixty days from the close of 

the ˜nancial year as per the requirements of the Listing Regulations. The aforesaid ˜nancial results are 

sent to BSE Limited (BSE) and The National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) where the Company™s 

securities are listed, immediately after these are approved by the Board
.


    
The Company™s results, of˜cial news releases and presentations made to Institutional Investors/ Analysts, 
if any, are displayed on the Company™s website 
www
.
nilkamal
.
com
. Further, the said results are also 
e-mailed to the shareholders on their registered e-mail IDs.


38
10.
 
GENERAL
 
SHAREHOLDER
 
INFORMATION
 
Annual General Meeting
Date & Time
Saturday, June 30, 2018 at 12.00 noon.
Venue
Survey No. 354/2 & 354/3, Near Rakholi Bridge, Silvassa Khanvel Road, 
Vasona, Silvassa-396 230, Union Territory of Dadra & Nagar Haveli.
Financial Calendar
Financial Year: April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 

Results for Quarter ending:
June 30, 2018
Before August 14, 2018.
September 30, 2018
Before November 14, 2018.
December 31, 2018
Before February 14, 2019.
March 31, 2019
Before May 30, 2019.
Date of Book Closure
From June 24, 2018 to June 30, 2018 (both days inclusive)
Dividend payment date
Between July 4, 2018 to July 14, 2018.
Listing on Stock Exchanges
1.
 
  
The BSE Limited
 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai 400001.
2.
 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
 
Exchange Plaza, 5
th
 Floor, Plot No. C/1, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (East), Mumbai 400051.
Stock Code
1.
 
The BSE Limited Œ 523385
2.
 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited Œ NILKAMAL
Demat ISIN in NSDL and 

CDSL for Equity Shares
INE310A01015
Corporate Identi˜cation 

Number (CIN)
L25209DN1985PLC000162
  
The Company has paid the Annual Listing fees to each of the above Stock Exchanges, for the ˜nancial year 
2017-2018.
 
Market Price Data
BSE Limited
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Month
High (
`
)
Low (
`
)
Month
High (
`
)
Low (
`
)
April, 2017
2,257.05
1,907.00
April, 2017
2,258.50
1,900.00
May, 2017
2,274.85
1,792.00
May, 2017
2,275.00
1,779.05
June, 2017
2,134.35
1,860.20
June, 2017
2,132.20
1,858.05
July, 2017
2,048.00
1,872.55
July, 2017
2,048.00
1,699.20
August, 2017
1,899.00
1,525.45
August, 2017
1,898.95
1,522.00
September, 2017
1,634.80
1,491.20
September, 2017
1,633.50
1,488.15
October, 2017
1,740.00
1,543.10
October, 2017
1,744.00
1,543.00
November, 2017
1,841.40
1,554.50
November, 2017
1,841.00
1,551.00
December, 2017
1,900.00
1,646.15
December, 2017
1,880.00
1,625.80
January, 2018
2,095.80
1,791.00
January, 2018
2,094.00
1,790.00
February, 2018
1,847.55
1,600.00
February, 2018
1,847.00
1,580.00
March, 2018
1,747.85
1,515.60
March, 2018
1,718.95
1,513.15
39
  
Performance in comparison to broad-based indices such as BSE Sensex Shar
e Price Movement 
during each month of the ˜nancial year 2017-2018*
 
 
27000
28000

29000
30000
31000

32000

33000

34000

35000

36000
0.00
500.00
1000.00
1500.00
2000.00
2500.00
SENSEX
NILKAMAL
NILKAMAL
SENSEX
 
* Sources www.bseindia.com.
 
Registrar and Transfer Agents and Shar
e Transfer System
  
M/s. Link Intime India Private Limited (Link Intime),
 
C-101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli West, Mumbai: 
400083; Tel: 022-49186270, Fax: 022-49186060, Email: 
rnt
.
helpdesk
@
link
intime
.
co
.
in
 
are
 
the
 
Registrar
 
and
 
Share
 
Transfer
 
Agents
 
for
 
physical
 
shares
 
of
 
the
 
Company
. 
They
 
are
 
also
 
the
 
depository
 
interface
 
of
 
the
 
Company
 
with
 
both
 
National
 
Securities
 
Depository
 
Limited
 (
NSDL
) 
and
 
Central
 
Depository
 
Services
 (
India
) 
Limited
 (
CDSL
).
 
Distribution of Shareholding as on Mar
ch 31, 2018
No. of equity shares held
No. of 
Shareholders
% of 
Shareholders
No. of shares held
% of 
Shareholding
1-500
22,090
96.47
1,142,775
7.66
501 to 1000
377
1.65
282,774
1.90
1001 to 2000
209
0.91
304,687
2.04
2001 to 3000
67
0.29
164,289
1.10
3001 to 4000
27
0.12
92,788
0.62
4001 to 5000
23
0.10
106,117
0.71
5001 to 10000
41
0.18
292,616
1.96
10001 and above
65
0.28
12,536,479
84.01
Total
22,899
100.00
14,922,525
100.00
 
Shareholding Pattern as on March 31, 2018
Category
No. of Shareholders
Voting Strength 
(%)
No. of shares
Promoter and Promoter Group
22
64.09
9,563,259
Mutual Funds
8
11.10
1,656,656
Foreign Portfolio Investor
29
3.45
514,612
Financial Institution / Bank
3
0.04
6,645
Body Corporate
361
2.95
440,203
Public & Others
 22,029
18.37
2,741,150
Total
22,452
100
14,922,525
  
Note: As per the SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2017/128 dated December 19, 2017, the number of shareholders 
mentioned here are consolidated on PAN basis.
 
Dematerialisation of shares and liquidity
  
99% of the Company™s Share 
Capital is dematerialised as on March 31, 2018. The Company™s shares are regularly 
traded on the BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
40
  
Outstanding GDRs/ ADRs/ Warrants or any Convertible Instruments, conversion date and likely 
impact on equity
 
As on date, the Company has not issued GDRs, ADRs or any other Convertible Instruments.
  
Plant Locations
  
The Company™s plants are located at Barjora (W
est Bengal), Bhiwandi and Sinnar (Maharashtra), Dharuhera 
(Haryana), Hosur (Tamilnadu), Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir), Kharadpada and Vasona (Union Territory of 
Dadra and Nagar Haveli), Noida (Uttar Pradesh) and Puducherry (Puducherry).
 
Address for Correspondence
 
Investors can communicate at the following addresses:
1.
Ms. Priti P. Dave Œ Company Secretary
2.
M
/
s
. 
Link
 
Intime
 
India
 
Private
 
Limited
Nilkamal House,
77/78, Road No. 13/14, MIDC,

Andheri-East, Mumbai 400 093.

Tel:- 022-42358888 Fax:- 022-26818080

E-mail:- 
investor
@
nilkamal
.
com
Registrar
 
and
 
Transfer
 
Agents

C
-
101
, 
247
 
Park
, 
L
.
B
.
S
. 
Marg
,

Vikhroli
 
West
, 
Mumbai
: 
400083

Tel
: 
022-49186270
, 
Fax
: 
022-49186060
Email
: 
rnt
.
helpdesk
@
link
intime
.
co
.
in
MANAGING DIRECTOR™S DECLARATION FOR COMPLIANCE WITH CODE OF CONDUCT
To the Members of
NILKAMAL LIMITED
I hereby con˜rm that all the members of the Board and Senior Management have af˜rmed compliance with the 
Code of Conduct framed by the Company.
 
For
 
Nilkamal Limited
Place: Mumbai
 
Sharad V. Par
ekh
Date: May 11, 2018
 
Managing Director
MANAGING DIRECTOR / CFO CERTIFICATION
We the undersigned, in our respective capacities as Managing Director and Chief Financial Of˜cer of Nilkamal 

Limited (ﬁthe Companyﬂ) to the best of our knowledge and belief certify that:
(a)
  
We have reviewed Financial Statements and the Cash Flow Statement for the year ended March
 
31, 2018 and 
that to the best of our knowledge and belief:
 
i) 
  
These statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain 
statements that might be misleading;
 
ii) 
  
These statements together present a true and fair view of the Company's affairs and are in compliance 
with existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
(b)
  
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the 
year which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company's Code of Conduct.
(c)
  
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining Internal Controls for ˜nancial reporting and that 
we have evaluated the effectiveness of Internal Control systems of the Company pertaining to ˜nancial 

reporting and we have disclosed to the Auditors and the Audit Committee, de˜ciencies in the design or 

operation of such Internal Controls, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose 

to take to rectify these de˜ciencies.
(d)
  
We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee,
 
i)
 
 
Signi˜cant changes in the Internal Control over ˜nancial reporting during the year ended 
 
March 31, 2018;
 
ii)
 
 
Signi˜cant changes in accounting polices during the year ended March 31, 2018 and that the same have 
been disclosed in the notes to the Financial Statements, if any; and
 
iii)
 
 
Instances of signi˜cant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of 
the management or an employee having a signi˜cant role in the Company's Internal Control System over 

˜nancial reporting.
 
 
             
           For Nilkamal Limited
Date: 
May 11, 2018
 
Sharad V. Par
ekh
 
Paresh B. Mehta
 
Place: Mumbai
 
Managing Director
 
Chief Financial Of˜cer
41
Independent Auditors™Certi˜cate on Compliance with the Corporate Governance requirements under 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
1.
 
This certi˜cate is issued in accordance with the terms of our agreement dated March
 
15, 2018.
2.
 
This report contains details of compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Nilkamal Limited 
(‚the Company™) for the year ended March 31, 2018 as stipulated in Regulations 17-27, clause (b) to (i) of 
 
Regulation 46(2) and paragraphs C, D and E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‚Listing Regulations™) pursuant to the 

Listing Agreement of the Company with Stock Exchanges.
Management™s Responsibility for compliance with the conditions of Listing Regulations
3.
 
The compliance with the terms and conditions contained in the Corporate Governance is the responsibility 
of the Management of the Company including the preparation and maintenance of all relevant supporting 

records and documents. 
Auditors™ Responsibility
4.
 
Our examination was limited to procedures and implementation thereof adopted by the Company for ensuring 
the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion 

on the ˜nancial statements of the Company.
5.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, it is our responsibility to provide a reasonable 
assurance whether the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in 

Listing Regulations for the year ended March 31, 2018.
6.
 
We conducted our examination in accordance with the Guidance Note on Reports or Certi˜cates for Special 
Purposes issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.  The Guidance Note requires that we 

comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 

of India.
7.
 
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, 
Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other 

Assurance and Related Services Engagements.
Opinion
8.
 
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according to explanations given to us, we certify that 
the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the above mentioned 

Listing Regulations.
 
We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the 
ef˜ciency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
Restriction on use
9.
 
The certi˜cate is addressed and provided to the members of the Company solely for the purpose to enable 
the Company to comply with the requirement of the Listing Regulations, and it should not be used by any 

other person or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not accept or assume any liability or any duty of 

care for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this certi˜cate is shown or into whose hands it 

may come without our prior consent in writing.
 
For
 
B S R & Co. LLP
 
Chartered Accountants
 
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W
-100022
 
 
Sadashiv Shetty
Mumbai
 
Partner
May 11, 2018
 
Membership No: 048648
 
 
 
42
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
INDUSTRY STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES, THREATS, RISKS, CONCERNS AND OUTLOOK:-
2017-2018 has been an eventful year overall for the Indian Economy with long awaited nationwide rollout of 
GST. Disruptions and anxiety due to perceptions, certain lack of clarity and overall adaptation of HSN based tax 

rates, though affected the Business in 2
nd
/ 3
rd 
quarter, have now been overcome and settled.
While other measures of the Government, namely, the enactment of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) 

Act, 2016 (RERA) and implementation of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (IBC) shall play a positive role 

for the economy over a period of time.
The improvement seen in the Indian Industrial Production (IIP) numbers since last couple of months suggest that 
the Indian economy has now moved on a recovery path which is a good indicator.
The Indian economy is poised to grow at a rate of 7% in 2018-2019, after an estimated 6.6% growth in 
 
2017-2018.

At Company level going forward it is our conviction that the transparent policies and level playing ˜eld provided 
by the GST regime, along with the stringent statute compliance with initiatives like E-way bill implementation, 

will further help the growth of organised sector due to reduction of unethical practices which had led to unfair 

and unjust competition in the past.
Plastic Division

The 
Plastic Business
 has achieved a volume growth of 2% and value growth of 8%. During the ˜nancial year 
2017-2018 it has achieved total turnover of 
`
 
185,638 lacs as compared to 
` 
172,370 lacs in the previous year.
During the ˜nancial year 2017-2018, the 
Furniture Business
 recorded a growth of nearly 6% in value terms. 
The furniture division sales include the Moulded Furniture business, the Ready Furniture business - which offers a 
range of over 450 products with a combination of metal chairs/ of˜ce chairs manufactured in-house and traded 

products across all segments of home and of˜ce categories like bedroom, dinning, desking and storage, living 

and the Mattress business.
In the year gone by, your Company has introduced several new products to stay ahead of the curve in the highly 
competitive furniture domain, the objective clearly being to provide innovative products which will enhance 

the offerings and also improve the top and bottom line of both the Channel Partners and the Company. These 

innovations were basically centered around better aesthetics, innovative designs and space-saving attributes. 

The new introductions by the Company are well accepted by trade partners and post October, 2017 the Company 

could register a volume growth of around 8% over the previous ˜nancial year. To keep up the momentum, your 

Company is planning to invest in the range of differentiated products in all the verticals in the ˜nancial year 

2018-2019 to ˜ll in product gaps and bring freshness in the product offerings. The distribution base spread across 

every district of our country will increase the visibility quotient to the remotest rural market and this coupled 

with our ability to manage complex supply chain equations at a lower cost as compared to the industry norms 

would be our clear ﬁright to winﬂ and will help the division to grow consistently over double digits in the coming 

years. The strong network of 40 plus depots and nearly 300 plus sales staff assisted by a robust SCM system which 

links the multi locational production facilities to deliver our products ef˜ciently helped us in not only enhancing 

the market penetration further but also improved our timely ˜ll rate to the general trade, modern trade and 

E-commerce portals across the country. This would continue to be our focus area in the coming period.
In the coming year the Company is geared up to improve the indigenisation initiative through local sourcing 
and selective backward integration especially in the metal, sofa and MDF category of products. The core focus 

of leveraging our visibility continues through our focus on commissioning franchise stores across geographies. 

These stores would be showcasing all the 3 verticals and the plan would be to add on 10 FOFOs in addition to 

the already existing 44 Nilkamal Home Ideas and Furniture Ideas Stores.
Nilkamal™s focus on 3 verticals i.e. Moulded Furniture, Ready Furniture and Mattress has helped us to develop a 
unique business model in the country as it essentially serves the same network of distributors and retailers thus 

making it easier for them to source all types of furniture requirements of their customer in the Furniture domain 

through one major principal. This in a way is a winning solution for the Channel Partners as this takes care of 

their aspiration of both top line growth and pro˜tability. With the visibility equation established, the Company 

proposes to continue investing in ATL initiatives like TV advertisement on national channels to increase the 

brand awareness for all the 3 verticals. We believe that this will augment the already strong recall of Nilkamal 

brand accrued from over 6 Crores. household of Moulded Furniture base build over nearly 3 decades.
Stability in crude prices, strengthening of our currency will help in development of the market for the Company™s 
products in short and medium term. However, any adverse ˚uctuations or uncertainties can be a cause for 

concern.
Revenues of 
Material Handling Business
 for FY 2017-2018 grew by 7% y-o-y, which for joint ventures Nilkamal 
Bito Storage Systems Private Limited grew by 22% and for Cambro Nilkamal Private Limited grew by 20%.
43
In order to improve service delivery times and reduce logistic cost, the Company has enhanced storage 
capacities at its Sinnar and Silvassa plants and also setup Mega Warehouses near Auto Hubs in North (Malpura), 
 
South (Bangalore) and West (Vithalapur).
We are also investing in machineries to increase our production capacities in Roto and Injection moulding and 
moulds of growth segments for wider range of pallets and waste management products based on a focused 

market research and product development program to add value to our product offerings, strengthening our 
brand positioning as a ﬁOne Stop Shop for Material Handling Solutionsﬂ.
 
Nilkamal was accorded ﬁCLEAN AWARDﬂ 
by The Economic Times for Company™s waste management products. Our offering of complete intralogistics 

solutions would grant us strong growth in business based on buoyant growth in sectors such as automotive, 

engineering, ˜sheries and food processing.
Our ‚Go to Market™ through our direct sales model, with 400 plus Pan India sales force has been further 
strengthened by increased usage of technological customer relationship solutions (CRM Software) integrated 

with our SAP ERP to drive sales force productivity. We have implemented key account management to deepen 

customer penetration and capture a larger share of their purchases in our product segments and also started use 

of data analytics to identify and tap into expanded markets to broaden customer base. We have expanded use 

of BI (Business Intelligence), machine learning tools to help us increase ef˜ciency in warehouse stocking, logistics 

and accounts receivable™s management. Ef˜ciencies in these will directly lead to better cash ˚ows and reduction 

in related costs.
Most importantly, a program ﬁFit for growthﬂ has been instituted as a comprehensive manpower productivity 
improvement exercise to map and improve our processes by reducing complexities and use of technology with 

an aim to improve manpower productivity.
Immediate to medium term concerns are, rising crude price, impacting raw material prices and disruptions in 
agriculture sector due to climatic changes which pose as challenge to revenue growth and pro˜tability.
Lifestyle Furniture, Furnishing and Accessories Division:

We constantly live by our values of relentlessly serving our customers by bringing to them, the latest and the 
best.
With 17 large format retail stores and 11 Shop-in-Shop stores in 14 cities, the brand has a retail space spread of 
nearly 2.76 lakh square feet. A fully functional website (www.at-home.co.in) and presence across leading online 

market places helps ful˜ll the needs of the digital customer.
During FY18, @home™s year-on-year growth was at 2%(same store sales). The steep GST rate implementation 
and changes had an impact on the consumer sentiment at large, but our stores still delivered an overall 

growth compared to previous year. The business achieved 
` 
21,478 lacs of revenue compared to previous year 
 
`
 23,294 lacs. Negative difference in revenue is due to attribution of sales from the Institutional business and 

Nilkamal E-commerce vertical to other divisions within the Nilkamal business. In spite of this lower turnover, 
 
@home business continued to remain pro˜table at corporate level.
The of˚ine furniture market is dominated by the organised players with only a few national organised retail 
chains. This structure of the market could see some changes in the medium to long term on account of compliances 

required under the GST regime for the unorganised players.
For this ˜nancial year, there is a keen focus on store expansion by the ‚franchise™ route. We have signed two 
franchise stores in Tier 2 cities and a few others are in pipeline. Omni-channel customer experience also occupies 

an important space in the brand™s strategy for this ˜nancial year. A focus on driving digital engagement and 

digital in˚uence shall help drive business, both online and of˚ine. This would also include enhancing the web 

experience for a customer and building an assortment speci˜cally for the @home digital customer.
A watch-out for the business in FY19 could be the play by the online marketplaces in the ‚home™ segment. An 
investment in the ‚home™ segment is likely to create a conducive market for the online transactions in Tier 2 and 

Tier 3 cities. However, this could also help us gain more e-commerce sale on account of presence across leading 

marketplaces.
Financial Review

Operating Pro˜t

The Company registered operating pro˜t of 
` 
23,972 lacs, against 
` 
22,932 lacs in the previous year, an increase 
of 5% over the previous year.

Interest

Financial cost has been increased from 
`
 
1,159 lacs to 
` 
1,249 lacs.
Net Pro˜t

The Company has made net pro˜t after tax at same level of previous year i.e. 
` 
11,711 lacs.

Dividend

The Company has proposed ˜nal dividend of 
`
 
9 per equity shares (90%) for the current year. The total out˚ow 
inclusive of interim dividend and proposed ˜nal dividend amounts to 
` 
2,247 lacs including dividend distribution tax.
44
Capital Employed
The total capital employed stood at 
` 
89,008 lacs against 
` 
77,994 lacs of previous year. The total debt to equity 
stands at 0.12 times.

INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND THEIR ADEQUACY

The Management of your Company has put in place adequate Internal Controls that are commensurate with the 
size and nature of its Business. The Internal ˜nancial controls placed also ensures that executed transactions are 

recorded in all material respects to permit preparation of ˜nancial statements in conformity with established 

accounting principles.
Internal Audit Department along with the help of external professional agencies continuously monitors the 
effectiveness of the internal controls with an objective to provide to the Audit Committee and the Board of 

Directors, an independent, objective and reasonable assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal 

control. Based on their assessment, Management believes that your Company maintained effective internal 

control over ˜nancial reporting.
Human Resources and Industrial Relations

Your Company™s industrial relations continued to be harmonious during the year under review. The employee 
strength of your Company is currently 3012.
Cautionary Statement

The Management Discussions and Analysis Statement made above are on the basis of available data as well as 
certain assumptions as to the economic conditions, various factors affecting raw material prices, selling prices, trend 

and consumer demand and preference, governing and applicable laws and other economic and political factors. 

The Management cannot guarantee the accuracy of the assumptions and projected performance of the Company 

in future. It is therefore, cautioned that the actual results may differ from those expressed and implied therein.
45
Independent Auditors™ Report
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS™ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NILKAMAL LIMITED
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying standalone Ind AS financial statements of Nilkamal Limited (ﬁthe Companyﬂ), 
which comprise the Balance Sheet as at 31
st
 March 2018, the Statement of Profit and Loss, the Statement of 
Changes in Equity and the Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and summary of the significant 

accounting policies and other explanatory in formation 
(herein after referred to as ﬁstandalone Ind
 
AS financial 
statementsﬂ).
Management™s Responsibility for the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements

The Company™s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134 (5) of the Companies Act, 
2013 (ﬁthe Actﬂ) with respect to the preparation of these standalone Ind AS financial statements that give a 

true and fair view of the state of affairs, profit (including other comprehensive income), changes in equity and 

cashflows of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the 

Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) prescribed under section 133 of the Act.
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions 
of the Act for safe guarding the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other 

irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates 

that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial 

controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 

relevant to the preparation and presentation of the standalone Ind AS financial statements that give a true and 

fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company™s ability to continue 
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis 

of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no 

realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditor™s Responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these standalone Ind AS financial statements based on our audit.

We have taken into account the provisions of the Act, the accounting and auditing standards and matters which 
are required to be included in the audit report under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit of the standalone Ind AS financial statements in accordance with the Standards on 
Auditing specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. Those Standards require that we comply with ethical 

requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone Ind 

AS financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and the disclosures in the 
standalone Ind AS financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor™s judgment, including 

the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone Ind AS financial statements, whether 

due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal financial control relevant 

to the Company™s preparation of the standalone Ind AS financial statements that give a true and fair view in 

order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. An audit also includes evaluating 

the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made 

by the Company™s Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the standalone Ind AS financial 

statements.
We are also responsible to conclude on the appropriateness of management™s use of the going concern basis 
of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to 

events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity™s ability to continue as a going concern. If 

we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in the auditor™s report to the 

related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify the opinion. Our 

conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of the auditor™s report. However, future 

events or conditions may cause an entity to cease to continue as a going concern.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinion on the standalone Ind AS financial statements.
Opinion

In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid 
standalone Ind AS financial statements give the information required by the Act in the manner so required and 
46
Independent Auditors™ Report
give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India of the state 
of affairs of the Company as at 31
st
 March 2018, its profit (including other comprehensive income), changes in 
equity and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.
 
As required by the Companies (Auditor™s Report) Order, 2016 (ﬁthe Orderﬂ) issued by the Central Government 
in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in ﬁAnnexure Aﬂ a statement on the matters specified in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
2.
 
As required by Section 143 (3) of the Act, we report that:
(a)
 
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledgeand belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
(b)
 
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it 
appears from our examination of those books.
(c)
 
The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss, Statement of Changes in Equity and the Cash Flow 
Statement dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account.
(d)
 
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone Ind AS financial statements comply with the Indian Accounting 
Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act.
(e)
 
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31
st
 March 2018 taken on 
record by the Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 31
st
 March 2018 from being 
appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
(f)
 
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements 
of the Company andthe operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in 

ﬁAnnexure Bﬂ.
(g)
 
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor™s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and 

according to the explanations given to us:
i.
 
the Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone 
Ind AS financial statements- Refer note 33a to the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements;
ii.
 
the Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there 
were any material foreseeable losses;
iii.
 
there has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund by the Company during the year ended 31
st
 March 2018; and
iv.
 
the disclosures in the financial statements regarding holdings as well as dealings in specified bank 
notes during the period from 8 November 2016 to 30 December 2016 have not been made since 

they do not pertain to the financial year ended 31
st
 March 2018. However amounts as appearing in 
the audited Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended 31
st
 March 2017 have been 
disclosed.
For 
B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Sadashiv Shetty
Mumbai
Partner
May 11, 2018
Membership No: 048648
47
Annexure to Auditors™ Report
Annexure A to the Independent Auditors™ Report Œ 31
st
 March 2018 
(Referred to in our report of even date)
With refere
nce to the Annexure A referred to in the Independent Auditors™ Report to the members of the 
Company on the standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended 31
st
 March 2018, we report the 
following:
(i)
 
(a)
 
The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details 
and situation of fixed assets.
(b)
 
The Company has a regular programme of physical verification of its fixed assets by which the fixed 
assets are verified by the management according to a phased programme designed to cover all the items 

over a period of three years. In our opinion, this periodicity of physical verification is reasonable having 

regard to the size of the Company and the nature of its assets. In accordance with the programme, 

the Company has physically verified certain fixed assets during the year and we are informed that no 

material discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
(c) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the title deeds of immovable properties as disclosed in Note 1 to the standalone 

Ind AS financial statements, are held in the name of the Company other than those disclosed in the 

table below:
Asset class
No of 
cases
Gross Block 
(Rs in Lakhs)
Net block 
(Rs in Lakhs)
Remarks
Freehold land
1
0.68
0.68
Pending completion of the relevant 
formalities of some of the fixed assets 

which vested in the Company pursuant to 

the scheme of amalgamation, such assets 

continue to be in the name of the erstwhile 

amalgamated companies
Buildings
28
255.19
239.96
(ii)
 
The inventory, except for goods in transit and stocks lying with third parties, has been physically verified by 
the management at reasonable intervals during the year. In our opinion, the frequency of such verification 

is reasonable. In respect of stocks lying with third parties at the year-end, written confirmations have been 

obtained. The discrepancies noticed on verification between the physical stocks and the book records were 

not material and have been adequately dealt with in books of account.
(iii)
 
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not granted any loans to 

companies, firms, limited liability partnerships or other parties covered in the register maintained under 

Section 189 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‚the Act™). Accordingly, paragraphs 3 (iii) (a) and (b) of the Order 

are not applicable to the Company.
(iv)
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanation given to us, the Company has not granted 

any loans during the year or provided any guarantees or security to the parties covered under Section 

185 of the Act. The Company has complied with the provisions of Section 186 of the Act in respect of the 

investments made by the Company.
(v)
 
In our opinion, and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not 

accepted deposits from public in accordance with the provisions of Sections 73 to 76 or any other relevant 

provisions of the Act and the rules framed thereunder. Accordingly, paragraph 3(v) of the Order is not 

applicable to the Company.
(vi)
 
We have broadly reviewed the books of account maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules 

prescribed by the Central Government for maintenance of cost records under Section 148 (1) of the Act and 

are of the opinion that prima facie, the prescribed accounts and records have been made and maintained. 

However, we have not made a detailed examination of the records with a view to determine whether they 

are accurate or complete.
(vii)
 
(a)
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, amounts deducted/accrued in the books of account in respect of undisputed 

statutory dues including Provident fund, Employees™ State Insurance, Income-tax, Sales-tax, Goods and 

Service tax, Service tax, Duty of Customs, Duty of Excise, Value added tax, cess and other material 

statutory dues have been generally regularly deposited during the year by the Company with the 

appropriate authorities.
   
According to the information and ex
planations given to us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect 
of Provident fund, Employees™ State Insuran
ce, Income-tax, Sales-tax, Goods and Service tax, Service 
tax, Duty of Customs, Duty of Excise, Value added tax, cess and other material statutory dues were in 
arrears as at 31
st
 March 2018 for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
48
Annexure to Auditors™ Report
(b)
 
According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no dues of Income-tax, Sales tax, 
Service tax, Duty of Customs, Duty of Excise and Value added tax as at 31
st
 March 2018 which have not been 
deposited with the appropriate authorities on account of any dispute, except as stated below:
Name of the 
statute
Nature of dues
Amount *
(Rs. in 
Lakhs)
Period to which the 

amount relates
Forum where the dispute 

is pending
Central Sales Tax 

Act and Local Sales 

Tax of various states
Central Sales Tax 

and Local Sales Tax 

(including Value 

Added Tax)
-
35.22
0.77
26.13
20.70
140.21
2001-2002 to 2004-2005

2008-2009

2010-2011, 2015-2016

2012-2013 to 2014-2015

2011-2012 to 2014-2015
2012-2013 to 2016
Supreme Court
High Court

Commercial Tax Officer

Excise and Taxation Officer

Intelligance Officer of 
Commercial Taxes
Commissioner - Appeals
Central Excise Act, 
1944
Excise Duty
 22.95
206.78
26.60
150.29
10.17
21.36
26.37

30.88
2002-2007
November 2011 to May 2012

March 2007 to June 2015

June 2009 to September 2014
2008-2013

October 2014 to March 2015
April 2015 to December 2015

April 2013 to September 2014
Customs Excise & Service tax 
Appellate tribunal (ﬁCESTATﬂ)
Customs Excise & Service tax 
Appellate tribunal (ﬁCESTATﬂ)
Customs Excise & Service tax 
Appellate tribunal (ﬁCESTATﬂ)
Commissioner ŒAppeals

Commissioner ŒAppeals

Customs Excise & Service tax 
Appellate tribunal (ﬁCESTATﬂ)
Customs Excise & Service tax 
Appellate tribunal (ﬁCESTATﬂ)
Commissioner - Appeals
Finance Act, 1994
Service Tax
0.81
2007 to 2012
Customs Excise & Service tax 
Appellate tribunal (ﬁCESTATﬂ)
 
*
 Amount is net of payments made under dispute.
(viii)
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not defaulted 

in repayment of loans or borrowings to banks. The Company does not have any loans or borrowings from 

financial institutions or government or dues to debenture holders during the year.
(ix)
 
According to the information and explanations give to us and based on our examination of the records of 

the Company, the Company has not raised any moneys by way of initial public offer or further public offer 

(including debt instruments) and has not obtained any term loans during the year. Accordingly, paragraph 

3(ix) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(x)
 
During the course of our examination of the books and records of the Company, carried out in accordance 

with the generally accepted auditing practices in India, and according to the information and explanations 

given to us, we have neither come across any instance of material fraud by the Company or on the Company 

by its officers or employees, noticed or reported during the year, nor have we been informed of any such 

case by the Management.
(xi)
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the managerial remuneration 

has been paid or provided in accordance with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of Section 

197 read with Schedule V to the Act.
(xii)
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi 

company and the Nidhi Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it. Accordingly, paragraph 3(xii) of the Order is not 

applicable to the Company.
(xiii)
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has entered into 

transactions with related parties in compliance with the provisions of Sections 177 and 188 of the Act where 

applicable and the details of such related party transactions have been disclosed in the standalone financial 

statements as required by Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24, Related Party Disclosures specified under 

Section 133 of the Act, read with relevant rules.
49
Annexure to Auditors™ Report
(xiv)
 
According to the information and explanations give to us and based on our examination of the records 
of the Company, the Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or 

fully or partly convertible debentures during the year. Accordingly, paragraph 3(xiv) of the Order is not 

applicable to the Company.
(xv)
 
According to the information and explanations give to us and based on our examination of the records 

of the Company, the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with directors or persons 

connected with them. Accordingly, paragraph 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xvi)
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not required 

to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Accordingly, paragraph 3(xvi) 

of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
For 
B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Sadashiv Shetty
Mumbai
Partner
May 11, 2018
Membership No: 048648
50
Annexure to Auditors™ Report
Annexure B to the Independent Auditor™s Report Œ 31
st
 March 2018 on Standalone Ind AS Financial 
Statements
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (ﬁthe Actﬂ)
We have audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting of Nilkamal Limited (ﬁthe Companyﬂ) as 
of 31
st
 March 2018 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone Ind
 
AS financial statements of the Company 
for the year ended on that date.
Management™s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls

The Company™s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based 
on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential 

components of internal control stated in the ﬁGuidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 

Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Indiaﬂ. These responsibilities include the 

design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively 

for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to company™s policies, the 

safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness 

of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the 

Companies Act, 2013.
Auditors™ Responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company™s internal financial controls over financial reporting 
based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 

Controls Over Financial Reporting (the ﬁGuidance Noteﬂ) and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI and 

deemed to be prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an 

audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to an audit of Internal Financial Controls and, both issued 

by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we 

comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 

adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting was established and maintained and if such controls 

operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls system over financial reporting and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 

controls over financial reporting included obtaining anunderstanding of internal financial controls over financial 

reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 

effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor™s 

judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether 

due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinion on the Company™s internal financial controls system over financial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting

A company™s internal financial control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external 

purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company™s internal financial control over 

financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, 

in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; 

(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial 

statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and thatreceipts and expenditures of the 

company are being made only in accordance withauthorisations of management and directors of the company; 

and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, 

or disposition of the company™s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting

Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting, including the possibility 
of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may 

occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial 

reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control over financial reporting 

may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 

procedures may deteriorate.
51
Annexure to Auditors™ Report
Opinion
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system over 
financial reporting and such internal financial controls over financial reporting were operating effectively as 

at 31
st
 March 2018, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 

Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
For 
B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Sadashiv Shetty
Mumbai
Partner
May 11, 2018
Membership No: 048648
52
Standalone Balance Sheet
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31ST MARCH, 2018
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
Note
As at 
31st March, 2018
As at 
31st March, 2017
I.
ASSETS
1
Non-Current Assets
(a)
Property, Plant and Equipment
1
            32,606.11 
 25,623.53
(b)
Capital work-in-Progress
                 878.40 
 3,198.59
(c)
Other Intangible Assets
1a
                   62.23
 18.92
(d)
 Financial Assets

(i) Investments in Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures
2
              2,529.28 
 2,529.28
(ii) Other Investments
3
                   38.32 
 38.32
(iii) Loans
4
              2,314.30 
 2,252.21
(iv) Other Financial Assets (Net) 
5
                 116.83 
 282.44
4,998.73
5,102.25
(f)
Other Non-Current Assets
6
              2,203.94 
2,466.02
Total Non-Current Assets
            40,749.41
 36,409.31
2
Current Assets

(a)
Inventories
7
            36,860.34
 32,627.33
(b)
Financial Assets

(i)    Trade Receivables
8
            33,148.88 
 29,002.24
(ii)   Cash and Cash Equivalents
9
                 921.15 
 522.75
(iii)  Bank Balances other than Cash and Cash Equivalents
10
                 219.66 
 81.51
(iv)   Loans
11
                 736.72 
 565.26
(v)   Other Financial Assets
12
                   31.74
 64.17
35,058.15
30,235.93
(c)
Other Current Assets
13
              5,274.24 
 4,013.87
Total Current Assets
77,192.73
 66,877.13
TOTAL ASSETS
          117,942.14
 103,286.44
II.
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1
Equity

(a)
Equity Share Capital
14
              1,492.25 
 1,492.25
(b)
Other Equity
15
            78,225.31 
 68,221.05
Total Equity attributable  to Equity holders of the Company
            79,717.56
 69,713.30
2
Non-current liabilities
(a)
Financial Liabilities
(i)  Other Financial Liabilities
16
              4,988.95 
 4,620.51
(b)
Provisions
17
                 536.65 
 571.57
(c)
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net)
18
              1,072.39 
 521.62
(d)
Other Non-Current Liabilities
19
                 348.37 
 280.06
Total Non-Current Liabilities
6,946.36
 5,993.76
3
Current Liabilities
(a)
Financial Liabilities
(i)    Borrowings
21
9,290.75 
 8,280.56
(ii)   Trade Payables
22
            16,883.02 
 10,928.63
(iii)  Other Financial Liabilities
23
              1,429.18 
 2,329.60
27,602.95
21,538.79
(b)
Other Current Liabilities
24
              2,250.06 
 3,609.34
(c)
Provisions
25
              1,066.55 
 2,099.17
(d)
Current Tax Liabilities (Net)
                 358.66 
 332.08
Total Current Liabilities
            31,278.22 
 27,579.38
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
          117,942.14
 103,286.44
Signi˜cant accounting policies
32
The notes referred to above form an integral part of the standalone ˜nancial statements.
AS PER OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE ATTACHED
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants

Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
DIRECTORS OF NILKAMAL LIMITED

CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Sadashiv Shetty

Partner

Membership No : 048648
Sharad V. Parekh

Managing Director

DIN :  00035747
Hiten V. Parekh

Joint Managing Director

DIN :  00037550
Paresh B. Mehta

Chief Financial Of˜cer
 

Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave

Company Secretary

Membership No : 19469
Mumbai

May 11, 2018
Mumbai

May 11, 2018
53
Standalone Statement of Pro˜t and Loss
STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2018
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
Note
Year ended
 31
st
 March 2018
Year ended
 31
st
 March 2017
I.
Revenue from Operations
25
         210,795.62 
 209,484.71
II.
Other Income
26
                773.62 
 1,201.22
III.
Total Revenue (I+II)
         211,569.24
 210,685.93
IV.
Expenses:
Cost of Materials Consumed
72,858.69 
 68,943.75
Purchases of Stock in Trade
           44,352.00 
 47,109.24
Changes in inventories of Finished Goods, Stock in Trade  and  
Work-in-Progress
27
              (736.34)
 (2,950.35)
Excise Duty
3,679.37 
 13,819.96
Employee Bene˜ts Expense
28
           16,433.03 
 14,565.46
Finance Costs
29
             1,249.30 
 1,158.80
Depreciation and Amortisation Expenses
1
             4,846.85 
 4,881.70
Other Expenses
30
           51,010.73
 46,265.69
Total Expenses
         193,693.63
 193,794.25
V.
Pro˜t Before Tax (III-IV)
           17,875.61
 16,891.68
VI.
Tax Expense:
Current Tax
31
             5,695.00 
 5,390.00
Deferred Tax Charge/(Credit)
31
                470.06 
 (343.72)
Total Tax Expenses
             6,165.06 
5046.28
VII.
Pro˜t for the year (V-VI)
           11,710.55
 11,845.40
VIII.
Other Comprehensive Income:

Items that will not be reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss

Remeasurements of de˜ned bene˜t liability / (asset)
141.02 
 2.67
Income Tax effect on above
                (48.80)
 (0.92)
Items that will be reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss
Effective portion of gain/(loss) on hedging insrtrument in a cash ˚ow hedge
19.94 
 (7.10)
Income Tax effect on above
                  (6.90)
-
Other Comprehensive income for the year
105.26
(5.35)
Total Comprehensive income (VII + VIII)
           11,815.81
 11,840.05
IX.
Earnings per equity share of 
`
 10 each (Previous Year 
`
 10 each)
51
(1)  Basic (in 
`
)
 78.48
 79.38
(2)  Diluted (in 
`
)
 78.48
 79.38
Signi˜cant accounting policies
32
The notes referred to above form an integral part of the standalone ˜nancial statements.
AS PER OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE ATTACHED
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants

Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
DIRECTORS OF NILKAMAL LIMITED

CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Sadashiv Shetty

Partner

Membership No : 048648
Sharad V. Parekh

Managing Director

DIN :  00035747
Hiten V. Parekh

Joint Managing Director

DIN :  00037550
Paresh B. Mehta

Chief Financial Of˜cer
 

Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave

Company Secretary

Membership No : 19469
Mumbai

May 11, 2018
Mumbai

May 11, 2018
54
Standalone Cash Flow Statement
CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2018
( 
`
 in lakhs)
Year ended
31st March, 2018
Year ended
31st March, 2017
A.
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Pro˜t before Taxfor the year
17875.61
16,891.68
Adjustments for :

Depreciation and amortisation
 4,846.85 
 4,881.70
(Pro˜t)/Loss on sale of proprty, plant and equipment
 (24.03)
 34.23
Non-cash exepnses adjustment for Gratuity
 92.22 
 2.67
Finance Costs
 1,249.30 
1,158.80
Provision for doubtful debts and advances
 (24.23)
 143.94
Bad Debts Written off / (Back)
 313.08 
 71.39
Interest Income
 (274.83)
 (263.66)
Provision for Rent Equalisation
 68.31 
 99.70
Dividend Income on equity securities
 (474.76)
 (937.56)
Unrealised foreign currency Loss
 7.61
 (36.71)
 5,779.53 
  
5,154.50 
Operating Pro˜t before Working Capital changes
23,655.14
22,046.18
Working capital adjustments:

(Increase) in inventories
 (4,233.01)
 (3,203.23)
(Increase) in trade receivables
 (4,418.48)
 (3,446.95)
(Increase) in Other Receivables
 (1,266.20)
 (820.36)
Increase in Trade Payables
 5,929.77 
 175.12
Increase / (Decrease) in Other Liabilities & Provisions
 (2,989.19)
735.60
(6,977.11)
(6,559.82)
Cash generation from operation
16,678.03
15,486.36
Direct Taxes Paid (Net)
(5,587.71)
 (5,538.69)
(5,587.71)
 (5,538.66)
Net cash from operating activities (A)
11,090.32
9,947.70
B.
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Interest Received
 208.83 
201.95
Dividends received
 474.76 
 937.56
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
 271.19 
 207.43
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment
 (9,645.94)
 (7,603.59)
Investment and ˜xed deposits
 34.82
 (142.41)
Net cash used in investing activities (B)
(8,656.34)
(6,399.06)
C.
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES

Repayment of Long term Borrowings
 - 
(2,702.74)
Proceeds from Short Term borrowings (Net)
 1,010.19 
 835.84
Interest paid
 (1,234.22)
 (1,170.22)
Dividends paid (including tax on dividend.)
 (1,811.55)
 (647.10)
Net cash ˚ow from (used in) ˜nancing activities (C)
(2,035.58)
(3,684.22)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A + B + C)
398.40
 (135.58)
Cash and Cash Equivalents at 1 April 2017
 522.75
 658.33
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 2018
 921.15
 522.75
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
398.40
 (135.58)
55
Standalone Cash Flow Statement
CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED ENDED 31ST MARCH 2018 (CONTD.)
Notes to the cash ˚ow statement
1. 
Components of cash and cash equivalents 
 
( 
`
 in lakhs)
Year ended
31st March, 2018
Year ended
31st March, 2017
 
(a) Cash on Hand
148.48
102.86
 
(b) Cheques on Hand
120.00
269.86
 
(c) Balance in Current Accounts
621.74
150.03
 
(d) Bank Deposits with less than 3 months maturity
30.93
-
 Cash and cash equivalents
921.15
522.75
2
Debt reconciliation statement in accordance with Ind AS 7
Opening balances

Long-term borrowing including derivative liability
 -
 2,702.74
Short-term borrowing
 8,280.56
 7,444.72
 8,280.56
 10,147.46
Movements

Long-term borrowing
 -
 (2,702.74)
Short-term borrowing
 1,010.19
 835.84
 1,010.19
 (1,866.90)
Closing balances

Long-term borrowing
 -
 -
Short-term borrowing
 9,290.75
 8,280.56
 9,290.75
 8,280.56
3
The Cash Flow statement has been prepared under the "Indirect Method" as set out Indian Accounting Standard (Ind 
AS -7) Statement of Cash ˚ows.
4
Previous year's ˜gures have been regrouped / recasted wherever necessary.
AS PER OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE ATTACHED
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants

Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
DIRECTORS OF NILKAMAL LIMITED

CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Sadashiv Shetty

Partner

Membership No : 048648
Sharad V. Parekh

Managing Director

DIN :  00035747
Hiten V. Parekh

Joint Managing Director

DIN :  00037550
Paresh B. Mehta

Chief Financial Of˜cer
 

Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave

Company Secretary

Membership No : 19469
Mumbai

May 11, 2018
Mumbai

May 11, 2018
56
Statement of Changes in Equity (SOCIE)
(b) Other equity
 (
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
 Reserves and Surplus
 Items of Other comprehensive income
 Total
Retained 
Earnings
 Securities 
Premium 
Reserve
 General 
Reserve
 Effective 
portion of cash 
˚ow hedges
 Remeasurements 
of the net de˜ned 
bene˜t Plans
Balance at April 1, 2016
24,495.17
 6,448.96
26,115.16
 (13.18)
 (18.01)
 57,028.10
Pro˜t for the year
 11,845.40
 11,845.40
Actuarial gain /( loss ) on de˜ned bene˜t plan
 1.75
 1.75
Net gain recognised on cash ˚ow hedge
 (7.10)
 (7.10)
Other comprehensive income for the year
 (7.10)
1.75
(5.35)
Total comprehensive income for the year
11,845.40
-
-
 (7.10)
1.75
11,840.05
Interim dividend declared and paid
 (596.90)
 (596.90)
DDT on interim dividend distributed
 (50.20)
 (50.20)
Transfer to General reserve
(5000.00)
5000.00
Balance at March 31, 2017
30,693.47
 6,448.96
31,115.16
 (20.28)
 (16.26)
 68,221.05
Pro˜t for the year
11,710.55
 11,710.55 
Actuarial gain /( loss ) on de˜ned bene˜t plan net of tax
92.22
 92.22 
Net Loss recognised on cash ˚ow hedge
13.04
 13.04 
Other comprehensive income for the year
13.04
92.22
 105.26
Total comprehensive income for the year
 42,404.02 
 6,448.96 
31,115.16 
 (7.24)
 75.96 
 80,036.86
Final Dividend paid
 (1,044.58)
 (1,044.58)
Interim dividend declared and paid
 (596.90)
 (596.90)
Transfer to general reserve
 (3,884.84)
3,884.84
 - 
DDT on interim and Final Dividend Distributed
 (170.07)
 (170.07)
Balance at March 31, 2017
 36,707.63 
 6,448.96 
 35,000.00 
 (7.24)
 75.96 
 78,225.31
 (
`
 in lakhs)
(a) Equity share capital
 As at 31st March, 2018
 As at 31st March, 2017
No. of
 Shares
 Amount
 No. of Shares
 Amount
Balance at the beginning of the reporting period 
14,922,525
 1,492.25
 14,922,525
 1,492.25
Changes in equity share capital during the year
-
-
-
-
Balance at the end of the reporting period
14,922,525
 1,492.25
 14,922,525
 1,492.25
AS PER OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE ATTACHED
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants

Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
DIRECTORS OF NILKAMAL LIMITED

CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Sadashiv Shetty

Partner

Membership No : 048648
Sharad V. Parekh

Managing Director

DIN :  00035747
Hiten V. Parekh

Joint Managing 

Director

DIN :  00037550
Paresh B. Mehta

Chief Financial Of˜cer
 

Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave
Company Secretary

Membership No : 19469
Mumbai
May 11, 2018
Mumbai

May 11, 2018
Statement of Changes in Equity (SOCIE) for the year ended 31st March, 2018
57
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
1
 
Property, Plant and Equipment
 
(
`
 in lakhs)
Free Hold 
Land
Leasehold 
Land
Building
Plant and 
Equipments
Furniture 
and Fixtures
Vehicles
Of˜ce 
Equipments
Lease 
Equipments
Leasehold 
Improvements
Total
Gross Block :
Balance as at 1st April 2016
 1,131.70 
 167.27 
 9,765.49 
 13,770.54 
 2,524.99 
 486.80 
 1,152.95 
 194.26 
 1,844.26 
 31,038.26 
Additions
 - 
 - 
 96.92 
 4,122.35 
 191.94 
 4.08 
 254.87 
 - 
 - 
 4,670.16 
Adjustments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.52 
 0.04 
 - 
 (0.56)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 12.34 
 85.74 
 51.99 
 167.36 
 33.17 
 132.71 
 227.24 
 710.55 
Balance as at 31st March 2017
 1,131.70 
 167.27 
 9,850.07 
 17,807.67 
 2,664.98 
 323.52 
 1,374.09 
 61.55 
 1,617.02 
 34,997.87 
Balance as at 1st April 2017
 1,131.70 
 167.27 
 9,850.07 
 17,807.67 
 2,664.98 
 323.52 
 1,374.09 
 61.55 
 1,617.02 
 34,997.87 
Additions
 - 
 - 
 3,416.84 
 7,599.12 
 621.47 
 77.33 
 335.32 
 - 
 - 
 12,050.08 
Adjustments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1.25)
 0.15 
 - 
 1.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 27.64 
 264.58 
 36.93 
 128.58 
 26.04 
 - 
 63.80 
 547.57 
Balance as at 31st March 2018
 1,131.70 
 167.27 
 13,239.27 
 25,140.96 
 3,249.67 
 272.27 
 1,684.47 
 61.55 
 1,553.22 
 46,500.38 
Depreciation :

Balance as at 1st April 2016
 - 
 2.50 
 455.42 
 2,733.71 
 603.68 
 129.98 
 433.55 
 52.95 
 625.21 
 5,037.00 
Depreciation for the year
 - 
 2.18 
 436.28 
 3,141.50 
 453.86 
 80.62 
 355.84 
 25.97 
 309.99 
 4,806.24 
Disposals / Adjustments
 - 
 - 
 0.28 
 45.86 
 47.57 
 65.75 
 20.42 
 62.90 
 226.12 
 468.90 
Balance as at 31st March 2017
 - 
 4.68 
 891.42 
 5,829.35 
 1,009.97 
 144.85 
 768.97 
 16.02 
 709.08 
 9,374.34 
Balance as at 1st April 2017
 - 
 4.68 
 891.42 
 5,829.35 
 1,009.97 
 144.85 
 768.97 
 16.02 
 709.08 
 9,374.34 
Depreciation for the year
 - 
 2.18 
 488.30 
 3,252.34 
 429.99 
 52.49 
 310.00 
 8.01 
 277.04 
 4,820.35 
Adjustments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1.04)
 0.14 
 - 
 0.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disposals / Adjustments
 - 
 - 
 1.54 
 103.59 
 33.21 
 74.33 
 23.95 
 - 
 63.80 
 300.42 
Balance as at 31st March 2018
 - 
 6.86 
 1,378.18 
 8,977.06 
 1,406.89 
 123.01 
 1,055.92 
 24.03 
 922.32 
 13,894.27 
Net Block :

As at 31st March 2017
 1,131.70 
 162.59 
 8,958.65 
 11,978.32 
 1,655.01 
 178.67 
 605.12 
 45.53 
 907.94 
 25,623.53 
As at 31st March 2018
 1,131.70 
 160.41 
 11,861.09 
 16,163.90 
 1,842.78 
 149.26 
 628.55 
 37.52 
 630.90 
 32,606.11 
Notes :-
a) 
 
Leasehold land acquisition value includes 
`
 0.01 lakh (Previous Year 
`
 0.01 lakh) paid by way of subscription of shares for membership of co-operative housing society. 
b) 
 
Pending completion of the relevant formalities of the ˜xed assets having Gross block value 
`
 255.87 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 263.07 lakhs) and Net block value 
`
 240.64 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 252.56 lakhs)which 
vested in the name of Company pursuant to the scheme of amalgamation, such assets continue to be in the name of the erstwhile a
malgamated companies.
c) 
 
For capital commitment with regards to property plant and equipemnt refer note 33 (b).
d)
 
For Assets on hypothecation as security against borrowing refer note 36.
e) 
 
For assets value given on operating lease refer note 40 (b).
58
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
 (
`
 in lakhs)
1a
Other Intangible Assets :
Computer 
Software
Total
Gross Block :
Balance as at 1st April 2016
226.49
226.49
Additions
 3.02 
 3.02 
Disposals
 -   
 -   
Balance as at 31st March 2017
 229.51 
 229.51 
Balance as at 1st April 2017
 229.51 
 229.51 
Additions
 69.81 
 69.81 
Disposals
 -   
 -   
Balance as at 31st March 2018
 299.32 
 299.32 
Depreciation :
Balance as at 1st April 2016
135.13
135.13
Depreciation for the year
75.76
75.76
Disposals / Adjustments
-
-
Balance as at 31st March 2017
210.59
210.59
Balance as at 1st April 2017
 210.59 
 210.59 
Depreciation for the year
 26.50 
 26.50 
Balance as at 31st March 2018
 237.09 
 237.09 
Net Block :

As at 31st March 2017
 18.92 
 18.92 
As at 31st March 2018
 62.23 
 62.23 
(
`
 in lakhs)
As at
 31st March, 2018
As at
 31st March, 2017
2
Investments in Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures
(Valued at cost unless stated otherwise)

Trade investments (Unquoted)

(I)   Investment in Equity instruments

(a) 
 Investment in Subsidiary Companies
(i)
 
1,520,000 (Previous year - 1,520,000) Equity Shares 
of SLR 10/- each of Nilkamal Eswaran Plastics Pvt. 
Ltd., Srilanka, fully paid up
 93.62
 93.62
 (ii) 1 (Previous year - 1) Equity share of DHS 185,000/- 
each of Nilkamal Crates and Bins, FZE, fully paid up
 19.65
 19.65
 (iii) 98 (Previous year - 98) Equity share of Rs. 10/- each 
of Nilkamal Foundation
 0.01 
 0.01 
 (b) Investments in Joint Ventures
(i)
 
2,220,000 (Previous Year 2,220,000), Equity Shares 
of of Rs. 10/ each of Nilkamal Bito Storage Systems 

Pvt Ltd., fully paid up
 2,215.50
 2,215.50
(ii)
 
105,000 (Previous 
Year 105,000), Equity Shares of Rs. 
10/- each of Cambro Nilkamal Pvt Ltd., fully paid up
 200.50
 200.50
Total
 2,529.28
 2,529.28
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 2,529.28
 2,529.28
59
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
( 
`
 in lakhs)
As at
 31st March, 2018
As at
 31st March, 2017
3
Other Non - current Investments 
(Refer note no 47)
 Unquoted
(a)
 
Investments - Others
       (i) 
 
200,000 (Previous year 200,000) Equity Shares of Rs. 10/ 
each of Beta Wind Farm Pvt. Ltd. fully paid up
 38.00
 38.00 
(b)
 
Investment in Government Securities
 
 
National Savings Certi˜cates
 
(Pledged with Government Authorities)
 0.32
 0.32
Total
 38.32
 38.32
Aggregate amount of unquoted other investments
 38.32
 38.32
4
Non-Current Loans

Unsecured, Considered good

(a)  Employee Loans
 377.09 
 376.47 
(b) Security Deposit

    (i)    With other than related parties
 1,217.21 
 1,155.74 
    (ii)   With related parties (Refer note no 39)
 720.00
 720.00 
Total
 2,314.30 
 2,252.21 
5
Other Non-Current Financial Assets

Unsecured, Considered good
(a) 
 
Bank Deposits with more than 12 months   maturity
 116.83 
 282.44 
Total
 116.83 
 282.44 
6
Other Non-Current Assets

Unsecured, Considered good

To parties other than related parties :

 (a)    Capital Advances
 766.99 
 899.78 
 (b)   Deposit with Government Authorities
 1,043.17 
 1,036.60 
 (c)  Other Loans and Advances

        (i)  Advance Given
 -   
 66.57 
        (ii)  Prepaid Lease Rental
 393.78 
 463.07 
Total
 2,203.94 
 2,466.02 
7
Inventories
(Valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value)
I.   
 
Raw Material (including Goods in transit 
`
 1,361.27 lakhs
 8,541.63 
 5,214.01 
       (Previous year - 
`
 696.35 lakhs))

II.   Work-in-Progress
 3,754.79 
 3,167.35 
III.  Finished Goods
 9,096.43 
 9,492.87 
IV.  Stock in Trade  (including Goods in transit 
`
 506.03 lakhs 
 12,997.97 
 12,452.62 
      (Previous year - 
`
 483.21 lakhs)

V.   Stores and Spares
 2,105.43 
 1,987.67 
VI.  Packing Material
 364.09 
 312.81 
Total
 36,860.34 
 32,627.33 
For Inventories on hypothecation as security against borrowing refer note 36.

During the year an amount of 
`
 88.81 lakhs (Previous year - 
`
 180.83 lakhs) was charged to the statement 
of pro˜t and loss on account of Damage and Slow Moving Inventory.
60
( 
`
 in lakhs)
As at
 31st March, 2018
As at
 31st March, 2017
8
Trade Receivables
    (a) Secured, Considered good
 4,163.01 
 3,168.67 
    (b) Unsecured, Considered good
 28,985.87 
 25,833.57 
    (c) Considered Doubtful
 645.03 
 669.26 
    Less: Provision for Loss Allowance
 (645.03)
 (669.26)
Total
 33,148.88 
 29,002.24 
For Trade receivables on hypothecation as security against borrowing refer note 36.
Trade receivables (unsecured considered good) includes 
`
 788.23 lakhs (Previous year - 
`
 604.77 lakhs) due from 
subsidiaries and joint venture companies. (Refer Note 39)
9
Cash and Cash Equivalents

   (a) Cash on Hand
 148.48 
 102.86 
   (b) Cheques on Hand
 120.00 
 269.86 
   (c)  Balance with Banks in Current Accounts
 621.74 
 150.03 
    (d)  Bank Deposits with less than 3 months maturity
 30.93 
 -   
Total
 921.15 
 522.75 
10
Bank Balances other than Cash and Cash Equivalents

   (a) Bank Deposits with 3-12 months maturity
 182.12 
 51.33 
   (b) Earmarked Balance with Banks  (Unclaimed Dividend)
 37.54 
 30.18 
Total
 219.66 
 81.51 
11
Current Loans
Unsecured, Considered good

To parties other than related parties :

(a)  Security Deposit
 736.72 
 565.26 
(b)  Security Deposits Considered Doubtful
 52.05 
 52.05 
       Less: Provision for Doubtful Deposits
 (52.05)
 (52.05)
Total
 736.72 
 565.26 
12
Other Current Financial Assets

 (a)   Interest Receivable
 1.24 
 1.64 
 (b)   Due from Related Parties
 18.23 
 46.51 
 (c)   Other Receivables
 12.27 
 16.02 
Total
 31.74 
 64.17
13
Other Current Assets

     
To parties other than related Parties
     (a)   Advance to Vendors
 2,015.22 
 1,458.08
     (b)   Advance for Expenses
 77.40 
 74.34
     (c)   Balances with Excise / GST Department
 2,496.70 
 1,582.26
     (d)   Prepaid Expenses
 342.08 
 306.51
     (e)   Others
 342.84 
 592.68
Total
 5,274.24 
 4,013.87
14
Equity Share Capital

Authorised

22,000,000 (Previous year - 22,000,000) Equity Shares of Rs.10/- 
each
 2,200.00
 2,200.00
3,000,000 (Previous year - 3,000,000) Preference Shares of Rs. 

10/- each
 300.00
 300.00
Total
 2,500.00
 2,500.00
Issued, Subscribed and Fully Paid-up
1,49,22,525 Equity Shares of Rs. 10/- each
(Previous year - 1,49,22,525 Equity Shares of Rs. 10/- each) 

(Refer Note 35)
 1,492.25
 1,492.25
Total
 1,492.25
 1,492.25
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
61
( 
`
 in lakhs)
As at
 31st March, 2018
As at
 31st March, 2017
15
Other Equity
(a)   Surplus (Pro˜t and Loss)

        At the commencement of the year
 30,693.47 
 24,495.17
 Add : Net Pro˜t for the year
 11,710.55 
 11,845.40
 Appropriations

Final Dividend 31st March, 2017 
`
 7 per share (Previous 
year 
`
 Nil per share)
 (1,044.58)
 -
 Interim Dividend
 (596.90)
 (596.90)
 
 
Tax on Final Dividend / Interim  Dividend
 (170.07)
 (50.20)
 Transfer to General Reserve
 (3,884.84)
(5,000.00)
 36,707.63 
 30,693.47
(b)   Securities Premium Reserve
       
 
At the commencement and at the end of  the year
 6,448.96
 6,448.96
 6,448.96
 6,448.96
(c)   General Reserve
 At the commencement of the year
 31,115.16 
 26,115.16
 Add: Transferred from Surplus
 3,884.84 
 5,000.00
 35,000.00 
31,115.16
(d)  
 
Items of Other Comprehensive Income
      (
i)  Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
  At the commencement of the year
 (20.28)
 (13.18)
  Add :  Net gain / (loss) recognised on cash ˚ow hedge 
(Refer Note 37)
 13.04 
 (7.10)
 (7.24)
 (20.28)
     (
ii)  
 
Remesurment of de˜ned bene˜t liability
            At the commencement of the year
 (16.26)
 (18.01)
          
 
 Add : 
 
Remesurment of de˜ned bene˜t liability/(assets)
 92.22 
 1.75 
 75.96 
 (16.26)
Total Other Equity
 78,225.31 
 68,221.05 
Nature and purpose of reserves
(1)    Securities premium reserve
  
 
Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised 
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act.
(3)    General reserve
 
General reserve forms part of the retained earnings and is permitted to be distributed to shareholders 
as part of dividend.
(3)    Cash ˚ow hedge reserve
 
 
For hedging foreign currency exposure risk, the Company uses forward contract which is also 
designated as cash ˚ow hedges. To the extent these hedges are effective; the change in fair value 
of the hedging instrument is recognised in the cash ˚ow hedging reserve. Amount recognised in the 

cash ˚ow hedging reserve is reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss when the hedged item affects pro˜t or loss.
(4)    Remeasurements of the net de˜ned bene˜t Plans
  
 
Remeasurements of the net de˜ned bene˜t 
Plans comprises actuarial gains and losses and return on 
plan assets (excluding interest income).
16
Other Non-Current Financial Liabilities
 Security Deposit Received.
 4,988.95 
 4,620.51
Total
 4,988.95 
 4,620.51
17
Non-Current Provisions

Provision for employee bene˜ts

(a)  Gratuity
 -   
 59.10 
(b)  Compensated Absences
 536.65 
 512.47 
Total
 536.65 
 571.57 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
62
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
( 
`
 in lakhs)
As at
 31st March, 2018
As at
 31st March, 2017
18
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) (refer note 31)
Major components of deferred tax assets and liabilities arising on account of timing differences are:

Deferred Tax Liabilities :

Depreciation and Amortisation
 1,610.55 
 1,281.42
Allowances under Income Tax Act
 316.69 
 316.69
 1,927.24 
 1,598.11
Deferred Tax Assets :

Disallowances under Income Tax Act
 629.45 
 844.87
Provision for Doubtful Debts
 225.40 
 231.62
 854.85 
 1,076.49
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net)
 1,072.39 
 521.62
19
Other Non-Current Liabilities

Rent Equalisation
348.37
280.06
Total
348.37
 280.06
20
Borrowings-Current Liabilities
Secured Loan (For Security and terms of repayment : 
Refer Note no 36
)
 Working Capital Loan from Banks

 Rupee Loans
 9,290.75 
 8,280.56
Total
 9,290.75 
 8,280.56
21
Trade Payables (Refer Note 38)

(a)  Due to micro, small and medium enterprise
-
-
(b)  Others
 16,883.02 
 10,928.63 
Total
 16,883.02 
 10,928.63 
22
Other Current Financial Liabilities

(a) Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
 22.21 
 7.13 
(b) Derivative Liability
 13.37 
 35.24 
(c) Unclaimed Dividends
 37.54 
 30.18 
(d) Capital Creditors
 382.24 
 361.27 
(e) Employee Bene˜ts
 973.82 
 1,895.78 
Total
 1,429.18 
 2,329.60 
23
Other Current Liabilities

(a)   Advances from Customers
 1,715.42 
 1,555.27
(b)   Statutory Dues

        (i)     Sales Tax / GST
 86.31 
 1,486.72
        (ii)    Excise and Service Tax
 0.74 
 115.47
        (iii)   TDS
 326.82 
 349.10
        (iv)   Employee Bene˜ts
 100.67 
 97.02
 514.54 
 2,048.31
 (c)   Other Payable
 20.10 
 5.76
Total
 2,250.06 
 3,609.34
63
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
( 
`
 in lakhs)
As at
 31st March, 2018
As at
 31st March, 2017
24
Current Provisions
(a)   
 
Provision for Employee Bene˜ts (Refer note no 49)
      (i)     Gratuity
 103.23 
 116.98
      (ii)    Compensated Absences
 314.98 
 282.14
 418.21 
 399.12
(b) Others Provisions
       (i)    
 
Provision For Excise Duty on Closing Stock
 -   
 1,037.19
       (ii)     
 
Provision For Product Warranties (Refer note 34)
 548.34 
 562.86
       (iii)  Provision Others (Refer note no 34)
 100.00 
 100.00
Total
 1,066.55 
 2,099.17
( 
`
 in lakhs)
25
Revenue from Operations
Year ended
 31st March, 2018
Year ended
 31st March, 2017
(a) Sale of Products (Including Excise Duty)
 (i)   Domestic
 201,832.80 
 199,446.96
(ii)  
 
Export  [Including Deemed Exports of 
`
 778.31 Lakhs, 
(Previous year - 
`
 2,894.22 Lakhs)]
 6,948.12 
 8,567.09
 208,780.92 
 208,014.05
(b) Sale of Services
743.01
683.75
(c) Other Operating Revenue

 (i)    Sale of Scrap
 346.62 
 266.35
 (ii)   Technical and Management Fees
 603.94 
 519.54
 (iii)  Others
 321.13 
 1.02
Revenue from Operations
 210,795.62 
 209,484.71
In accordance with Ind AS 18 on ﬁRevenueﬂ and Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, Sales for the 
previous year ended 31
st
 March 2017 and for the period 1
st
 April to 30
st
 June 2017 were reported gross of 
Excise Duty and net of Value Added Tax (VAT)/ Sales Tax. Excise Duty was reported as a separate expense 

line item. Consequent to the introduction of Goods and Services Tax (GST) with effect from 1
st
 July 2017, 
VAT/Sales Tax, Excise Duty etc. have been subsumed into GST and accordingly the same is not recognised 

as part of sales as per the requirements of Ind AS 18. 
26
Other Income
(a)    Interest Income
 274.83 
 263.66
(b) 
 
   
 
Dividend Income from Subsidiary Companies and Joint 
Ventures
 474.76 
 937.56
(c)    Pro˜t on Fixed Assets Sold / Discarded (Net)
 24.03 
 -   
Total
 773.62 
 1,201.22 
27
Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Traded Goods  
and Work-in-Progress.
 
Opening Stock
 Work in Progress
 3,167.35 
 2,481.24
 Finished Goods
 9,492.87 
 8,291.13
 Stock in Trade
 12,452.62 
 11,328.38
 25,112.84 
 22,100.75
Closing Stock

 Work in Progress
 3,754.78 
 3,167.35
 Finished Goods
 9,096.43 
 9,492.87
 Stock in Trade
 12,997.97 
 12,452.62
 25,849.18 
 25,112.84
 
 
Add : 
 
Excise Duty on Increase / decrease in Finished Goods
 -   
 61.74
Total
 (736.34)
 (2,950.35)
64
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
( 
`
 in lakhs)
Year ended 31st 
March, 2018
Year ended 31st 
March, 2017
28
Employee Bene˜ts Expense
(a)  Salary, Wages and Bonus (Net)
 14,642.72 
 12,936.58
(b)  Contribution to Provident and Other funds (Refer Note 49)
 583.27 
 523.52
(c)   Workmen and Staff Welfare Expenses
 1,207.04 
 1,105.36
Total
 16,433.03 
 14,565.46
29
Finance Costs
 (a)   Interest on Term Loans
 -   
 158.72
 (b)   Interest Paid to Banks
 742.45 
 543.95
 (c)   Other Interest
 457.64 
 388.26
 (d)   Other Borrowing Costs
 49.21 
 67.87
Total
 1,249.30 
 1,158.80
30
Other Expenses
(a)   Stores and Spares Consumed
 2,048.39 
 1,620.02 
(b)   Power and Fuel
 4,345.33 
 4,339.73 
(c)    Repairs :
   (i)    Building
 320.14 
 201.35 
   (ii)   Machinery
 238.52 
 275.91 
   (iii)   Others
 1,077.95 
 959.71 
(d)   Labour Charges
 9,607.13 
 8,413.41 
(e)   Rent (Refer Note no 41) 
 5,025.44 
 4,751.49 
(f)    Rates and Taxes
 564.94 
 1,038.73 
(g)   Insurance
 223.54 
 233.07 
(h)   Postage and Telephone Expenses
 671.47 
 691.95 
(i)    Loss on Fixed Assets Sold Discarded (Net)
 
-   
 34.23 
(j)    Packing Material Consumed
 2,098.21 
 1,880.11 
(k)   Travelling and Conveyance
 1,821.22 
 1,742.09 
(l)   Commission
 900.31 
 951.04 
(m)   Advertisements and Sales Promotion Expense
 4,041.06 
 3,430.18 
(n)  Computer Expenses
 778.77 
 630.37 
(o)   Transportation and Forwarding Charges
 13,285.64 
 11,453.67 
(p)   Security and Guards
 433.33 
 401.71 
(q)    House Keeping Expenses
 317.26 
 401.68 
(r)    Legal and Professional Fees
 930.67 
 812.85 
(s)    Vehicle Expenses
 660.54 
 665.58 
(t)   Printing and Stationery
 177.99 
 160.21 
(u)   Board Meeting Fees
 21.00 
 17.71 
(v)   Bad Debts written off
 313.08 
 71.39 
(w)   Provision for Doubtful Debts and Advances
 (24.23)
 143.94 
(x)   Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses
 259.02 
 183.87 
(y)   Payment to Auditors
         -    Audit Fees
 32.80 
 27.00 
         -    For Other Services
 8.92 
 24.21 
         -    Reimbursement of Expenses
 2.95 
 3.99 
(z) Foreign Exchange Loss
 156.87 
 236.99 
(aa)  Bank Charges
 295.89 
 262.85 
(ab)  Sundry Expenses
 376.58 
 204.65 
Total
 51,010.73 
 46,265.69 
65
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
( 
`
 in lakhs)
31 
Tax Expenses
(a) Amounts recognised in pro˜t and loss
 Year ended 31st 
March, 2018
 Year ended 31st 
March, 2017
Current income tax
 5,695.00 
 5,390.00
Adjustment in respect of current/ Deferred tax of 
previous year
 19.08 
 -
Deferred income tax liability / (asset), net
Origination and reversal of temporary differences
 450.98 
 (343.72)
Deferred tax expense/(Credit)
 450.98 
 (343.72)
Tax expense for the year
 6,145.98 
 5,046.28
Effective tax rate for the year
34.38%
29.87%
(b) Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
 Year ended 
31st March, 2018
 Year ended 
31st March, 2017
Before 
tax
 Tax 
(expense) 
bene˜t
 Net of 
tax
 Before 
tax
 Tax 
(expense) 
bene˜t
 Net of 
tax
Items that will not be reclassi˜ed to 

pro˜t or loss
Remeasurements of de˜ned bene˜t 
liability (asset)
 141.02 
 (48.80)
 92.22 
 2.67
 (0.92)
 1.75
Items that will be reclassi˜ed to pro˜t 

or loss
Effective portion of Gain/(Loss) on hedging 
instrument, in a cash ˚ow hedge
 19.94 
 (6.90)
 13.04 
 (7.10)
 -
 (7.10)
 160.96 
 (55.70)
 105.26 
 (4.43)
 (0.92)
 (5.35)
(c) Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Year ended 
31st March, 
2018
 Year ended 
31st March, 
2017
Pro˜t before tax
 17,875.61 
 16,891.68 
Company™s domestic tax rate
34.61%
34.61%
Reduction in tax  rate
0.06%
-
Tax effect of:
Tax impact of income not subject to tax
(0.06%)
(1.65%)
Tax effects of amounts which are not deductible for taxable income
0.60%
0.46%
Effect of different tax rate
(0.43%)
(0.83%)
Tax deduction Under Chapter VI 
(0.37%)
(2.35%)
Adjustment for current tax of prior period
(0.11%)
0.00%
Others
0.08%
(0.37%)
34.38%
29.87%
The applicable Indian corporate statutory rate for the year ended 31st March, 2018 and 2017 is 34.61%.
66
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
31.
Tax Expenses (Continued)
(d) Movement in deferred tax balances                                                                                                                                         
( 
`
 in lakhs)
31
st
 March, 2018
 Net balance
1st April, 
2017
 Recognised 
in pro˜t or 
loss
 
Recognised
in OCI
 Charge in 
respect of 
earlier years
 Net balance 
31
st
 March, 
2018 
Deferred 
tax asset
 Deferred 
tax 
liability
 Deferred tax asset / (liabilities)
Property, plant and equipment
 (1,281.42)
 (325.82)
 (3.31)
 (1,610.55)
 
-   
 (1,610.55)
Employee bene˜ts
 475.29 
 48.72 
 (48.80)
 (61.00)
 414.21 
 414.21 
 -   
 Rent equilisation
 95.06 
 -   
 -   
 95.06 
 95.06 
 -   
 Provision for Doubtful Debts / Advances
 231.61 
 (6.22)
 -   
 225.39 
 225.39 
 -   
 Other provisions
 (42.16)
 (167.66)
 (6.90)
 20.22 
 (196.50)
 120.19 
 (316.69)
Tax assets / (Liabilities)
 (521.62)
 (450.98)
 (55.70)
(44.09)
 (1,072.39)
 854.85 
(1,927.24)
Set off tax

Net tax assets / (liabilities)
 (521.62)
 (450.98)
 (55.70)
(44.09)
 (1,072.39)
 854.85 
(1,927.24)
 (e) Movement in deferred tax balances
 31
st
 March, 2017
 Net balance
1st April, 
2016
 Recognised 
in pro˜t or 
loss
Recognised
in OCI
 Charge in 
respect of 
earlier years
 Net balance 
31st March, 
2017
Deferred 
tax asset
 Deferred 
tax 
liability
 Deferred tax asset / (liabilities)

 Property, plant and equipment
 (1,365.71)
 80.40 
 3.89 
 (1,281.42)
 -   
 (1,281.42)
 Employee bene˜ts
 311.88 
 86.84 
 76.57 
 475.29 
 475.29 
 -   
 Rent equilisation
 60.56 
 34.50 
 -   
 95.06 
 95.06 
 -   
 Provision for Doubtful Debts / Advances
 175.28 
 56.33 
 -   
 231.61 
 231.61 
 -   
 Other provisions
 (151.86)
 85.65 
 (0.92)
 24.97 
 (42.16)
 274.53 
 (316.69)
 Tax assets (Liabilities)
 (969.85)
 343.72 
 (0.92)
105.43 
 (521.62)
 1,076.49 
(1,598.11)
 Set off tax

Net tax assets / (liabilities)
 (969.85)
 343.72 
 (0.92)
105.43 
 (521.62)
 1,076.49 
(1,598.11)
(1)
The company offsets tax assets and liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and current tax liabilities and the 
deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority. 
(2)
Signi˜cant management judgment is required in determining provision for income tax, deferred income tax assets and liabilities 
and recoverability of 

deferred income tax assets. The recoverability of deferred income tax assets is based on estimates of taxable income  in which 
the relevant entity operates 

and the period over which deferred income tax assets will be recovered.
(3)
Given that the Company does not have any intention to dispose investments in subsidiaries and Joint Ventures in the foreseeable future, deferred tax asset 

amounting to 
`
 562.54 lakhs as of 31 March 2018, 
`
 495.73 lakhs as on 31 March 2017 on indexation bene˜t in relation to such investments has not been recognised.
(4)
As on 31st March 2018, the tax liability with respect to the dividends proposed is 
`
 256.93 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 119.85 lakhs).
67
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
32
 
Signi˜cant accounting policies
 
a)
 
Basis of preparation of Financial Statements:
   
The Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) to comply with the section 133 of the Companies Act 2013(ﬁthe 2013 
Actﬂ), read with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015, and Companies 

(Indian Accounting Standards ) Rules, 2016. The ˜nancial statements were authorised for issue by the 

Company™s Board of Directors on 11
th
 May 2018.
   
All the assets and liabilities have been classi˜ed as current or non current as per the Company™s normal 
operating cycle and other criteria set out in Schedule III to the Act. Based on the nature of products 

and the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realization in cash and cash 

equivalent, the Company has ascertained the operating cycle to be 12 months.
  
Functional and presentation currency:
   
These Standalone ˜nancial statements are presented in Indian rupees, which is the Company™s 
functional currency. All amounts have been rounded off to two decimal places to the nearest lakh, 

unless otherwise indicated.
  
Historical cost convention:
   
The Standalone ˜nancial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the 
following:

value;

 
b)
 
Use of Estimates and Judgements:
   
The preparation of ˜nancial statements in accordance with Ind AS requires use of estimates and 
assumptions for some items, which might have an effect on their recognition and measurement in 

the balance sheet and statement of pro˜t and loss. The actual amounts realised may differ from these 

estimates.
  
Estimates and assumptions are required in particular for:


    
Useful lives of property plant and equipment are based on the life prescribed in Schedule II of 
the Companies Act, 2013. In cases, where the useful lives are different from that prescribed in 

Schedule II for plant and machinery and dies and moulds, they are based on technical advice, 

taking into account the nature of the asset, the estimated usage of the asset, the operating 

conditions of the asset, past history of replacement, anticipated technological changes, 

manufacturers™ warranties and maintenance support.


    
The obligation arising from de˜ned bene˜t plan is determined on the basis of actuarial 
assumptions. Key actuarial assumptions include discount rate, trends in salary escalation, actuarial 

rates and life expectancy. The discount rate is determined by reference to market yields at the 

end of the reporting period on government bonds. The period to maturity of the underlying 

bonds correspond to the probable maturity of the post-employment bene˜t obligations.


    
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary 
differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, 

and unutilized business loss and depreciation carry-forwards and tax credits. Deferred tax assets 

are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available 

against which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses, depreciation carry-

forwards and unused tax credits could be utilized.



    
The recognition and measurement of other provisions are based on the assessment of the 
probability of an out˚ow of resources, and on past experience and circumstances known at the 

balance sheet date. The actual out˚ow of resources at a future date may therefore vary from 

the amount included in other provisions.
68
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements

    
All ˜nancial assets / liabilities are required to be measured at fair value on initial recognition. In 
case of ˜nancial liabilities/assets which are required to subsequently be measured at amortised 

cost, interest is accrued using the effective interest method.
 
 

    
At inception of an arrangement, the Company determines whether the arrangement is or 
contains a lease
.
    
At inception or on reassessment of an arrangement 
that contains a lease, the Company 
separates payments and other consideration required by the arrangement into those for the 

lease and those for other elements on the basis of their relative fair values. If the Company 

concludes for a ˜nance lease that it is impracticable to separate the payments reliably, then an 

asset and a liability are recognised at an amount equal to the fair value of the underlying asset; 

subsequently, the liability is reduced as payments are made and an imputed ˜nance cost on the 

liability is recognised using the Company™s incremental borrowing rate. And in case of operating 

lease, treat all payments under the arrangement as lease payments.


    
Operating segments 
are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting. The 
Company prepares its segment information in conformity with the accounting policies adopted 

for preparing and presenting the ˜nancial statements of the Company as a whole.

    
Derivatives are carried at fair value. Derivatives includes foreign currency forward contracts and 
interest rate swaps. Fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are determined using the 

fair value reports provided by respective merchant bankers. Fair value of interest rate swaps are 

determined with respect to current market rate of interest.

    
The Company™s accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement of fair values for 
˜nancial instruments.
    
The Company has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair 
values. The management regularly reviews signi˜cant unobservable inputs and valuation 

adjustments. If third party information, such as broker quotes or pricing services, is used to 

measure fair values, then the management assesses the evidence obtained from the third parties 

to support the conclusion that such valuations meet the requirements of Ind AS, including the 

level in the fair value hierarchy in which such valuations should be classi˜ed.
    
When measuring the fair value of a ˜nancial asset or a ˜nancial liability, the Company uses 

observable market data as far as possible. Fair values are categorised into different levels in a 

fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows.

quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or 
liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).

inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable 
inputs).
    
If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or a liability fall into different levels of 
the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the 

same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is signi˜cant to the entire 

measurement.
 
c)
 
Standards issued but not yet ef
fective
   
The Company recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the 
reporting period during which the change has occurred.
   
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (ﬁMCAﬂ), on March 28
th
 2018, through Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Amendment Rules, 2018 has noti˜ed the new standard for revenue recognition and 

amended certain existing Ind ASs which are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1
st 
April  2018.
69
  
Ind AS 115- Revenue from Contract with Customers:
   
Ind AS 115 will supersede the existing revenue recognition standard ‚Ind AS 18 Œ Revenue™. The 
core principle of the new standard is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer 
of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which 

the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Further the new standard 

requires enhanced disclosures about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash 

flows arising from the entity™s contracts with customers.
   
The Company is evalvating the requirements 
of the Ind As 115 and the effect on the standalone 
financial statements is being evaluated.
  
Ind AS 21- The effect of changes in For
eign exchange rates
   
The amendment clarifies on the accounting 
of transactions that include the receipt or payment of 
advance consideration in a foreign currency. The appendix explains that the date of the transaction, for 

the purpose of determining the exchange rate, is the date of initial recognition of the non-monetary 

asset or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration.
   
The amendment 
will come into force from 1
st 
April 2018. The Company does not expect the effect of 
this on the standalone financial statements to be material based on preliminary evaluation.ﬂ
 
d)
 
Property, plant and equipment:


    
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
any accumulated impairment losses.
   
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment comprises:
    
Its purchase price, including import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting 
trade discounts and rebates.
    
Any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for 
it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
    
The initial 
estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on 
which it is located, the obligation for which an entity incurs either when the item is acquired or 

as a consequence of having used the item during a particular period for purposes other than to 

produce inventories during that period.
    
Income and expenses related to the incidental operations, not necessary to bring the item to the 
location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by 

management, are recognised in pro˜t or loss.
    
Items such 
as spare parts, stand-by equipments and servicing that meets the de˜nition of 
property, plant and equipment are capitalised at cost and depreciated over the useful life.
    
If signi˜cant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have dif
ferent useful lives, then 
they are accounted and depreciated for as separate items (major components) of property, plant 

and equipment.
    
Any gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in pro˜t 
or loss.


    
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if it is probable that the future economic bene˜ts 
associated with the expenditure will ˚ow to the Company.
 
e)
 
Depreciation:

assets as prescribed under Part C of Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 except for plant and 

machinery and Dies and moulds which is based on technical evaluation. Management believes 

that these useful lives best represent the period over which management expects to use these 

assets. Hence the useful life for plant and machinery of 10 years and for Dies and Moulds of 

6 years for continuous running is different from the useful life as prescribed under Part C of 

Schedule II of the Companies Act 2013;
     
Useful life of property plant and equipment are reviewed at each balance sheet date and 
adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
70


the date of such addition or upto the date of such sale/discardment, as the case may be;

purchase / acquisition;

`
15,000/- are depreciated 
entirely in the year of acquisition.
 
f)
 
Intangible Fixed Assets
 
:
   
Intangible assets, which 
are acquired by the Company and have ˜nite useful lives are measured at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
   
All other 
expenditure, including expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands, is 
recognised in pro˜t or loss as incurred.
 
g)
 
Amortisation:
   
Software (Intangible assets) are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis but 
not exceeding the period of 36 months.
   
Useful life of Intangible assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted prospectively, if 
appropriate.
 
h)
 
Financial Instruments:
   
A ˜nancial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a ˜nancial asset of one entity and a ˜nancial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity. Financial instruments also include derivative contracts 
such as foreign currency foreign exchange forward contracts and, interest rate swaps and currency 

options; and embedded derivatives in the host contract.
   
Financial instruments also covers contracts to buy or sell a non-˜nancial item that can be settled net 
in cash or another ˜nancial instrument, or by exchanging ˜nancial instruments, as if the contracts 

were ˜nancial instruments, with the exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be 

held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-˜nancial item in accordance with the entity™s 

expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
   
Derivatives are currently recognized at fair value on the date on which the derivative contract is 
entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period.
  
Cash Flow Hedges
   
The Company uses derivative ˜nancial instrument such as forward contracts and cross currency interest 
rate swaps to hedge its foreign currency risks and interest rate risks. Derivative ˜nancial instruments 

are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are 

subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as ˜nancial assets when the fair value 

is positive and as ˜nancial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
   
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken directly to the 
Statement of Pro˜t and Loss, except for the effective portion of cash ˚ow hedge, which is recognised 

in Other Comprehensive Income and accumulated in Cash Flow Hedge Reserve included in the Reserves 

and Surplus while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Statement of Pro˜t and 

Loss.
  
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classi˜ed as:
   
Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or 
liability.
   
Cash ˚ow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash ˚ows that is either attributable to 
particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability.
   
At the inception of a 
hedge relationship, the Company formally designates and documents the hedge 
relationship to which the Company wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management 

objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. The documentation includes identi˜cation of the 

hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how 

the entity will assess the effectiveness of changes in the hedging instrument™s fair value in offsetting 

the exposure to changes in the hedged item™s fair value or cash ˚ows attributable to the hedged risk. 

Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
71
˚ows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective 
throughout the ˜nancial reporting periods for which they were designated.
   
Hedge accounting is discontinued from the last testing date when the hedging instrument expires 
or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer quali˜es for hedge accounting. Cumulative gain 

or loss on such hedging instrument recognised in Cash Flow Hedge Reserve is retained there until 

the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net 

cumulative gain or loss recognised in Cash Flow Hedge Reserve is transferred to Statement of Pro˜t 

and Loss for the year.
  
Financial Assets

   
The Company shall classify ˜nancial assets as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value 
through other comprehensive income or fair value through pro˜t or loss on the basis of its business 

model for managing the ˜nancial assets and the contractual cash ˚ow characteristics of the ˜nancial 

asset.

   
All ˜nancial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the case of ˜nancial assets not recorded 
at fair value through pro˜t or loss, transaction costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the 

˜nancial asset. Purchases or sales of ˜nancial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame 

established by regulation or convention in the market place (regular way trades) are recognised on 

the trade date, i.e., the date that the Company commits to purchase or sell the asset.
  
Debt instruments at amortised cost
  
A ‚debt instrument™ is measured at the amortised cost if both the following conditions are met:
  
a)
 
 
The asset 
is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets for collecting 
contractual cash ˚ows, and
  
b)
 
 
Contractual terms of the asset give rise on speci˜ed dates to cash ˚ows that are solely payments 
of principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding.
    
After initial measurement, such ˜nancial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account 

any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. 

The EIR amortisation is included in ˜nance income in the pro˜t or loss. The losses arising from 

impairment are recognised in the pro˜t or loss. This category generally applies to trade and 

other receivables. For more information on receivables, refer to Note 47.
  
Equity investments
   
All equity investments in scope of Ind-AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity instruments which are 
held for trading are classi˜ed as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Company decides to 

classify the same either as at FVOCI or FVTPL. The Company makes such election on an instrument-by-

instrument basis. The classi˜cation is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.
   
If the Company decides to classify an equity instrument as FVOCI, then all fair value changes on the 
instrument, excluding dividends, are recognized in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from 

OCI to pro˜t and loss, even on sale of investment. However, the Company may transfer the cumulative 

gain or loss within equity.
   
Equity instruments 
included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all changes 
recognized in the pro˜t and loss.
  
Derecognition
   
A ˜nancial asset (or
, where applicable, a part of a ˜nancial asset or part of a Company of similar 
˜nancial assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e. removed from the Company™s balance sheet) when:


an obligation to pay the received cash ˚ows in full without material delay to a third party 

under a ‚pass-through™ arrangement; and either (a) the Company has transferred substantially 

all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Company has neither transferred nor retained 

substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
72
    
When the 
Company has transferred its rights to receive cash ˚ows from an asset or has entered 
into a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if and to what extent it has retained the risks 
and rewards of ownership. When it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of 

the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Company continues 

to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of the Company™s continuing involvement. In 

that case, the Company also recognises an associated liability. The transferred asset and the 

associated liability are measured on a basis that re˚ects the rights and obligations that the 

Company has retained.
     
Continuing involvement 
that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is 
measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount 

of consideration that the Company could be required to repay.
   
Impairment of ˜nancial assets
    
In accordance with Ind-AS 109, the Company applies expected credit loss 
(ECL) model for 
measurement and recognition of impairment loss on the following ˜nancial assets and credit 

risk exposure:
 
a)
Financial assets that are debt instruments, and are measured at amortised cost e.g., loans, 

debt securities, deposits, and bank balance.
b)
Trade receivables - The application of simpli˜ed approach does not require the Company 

to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based on 

lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition. Trade receivables 

are tested for impairment on a speci˜c basis after considering the sanctioned credit limits, 

security like letters of credit, security deposit collected etc. and expectations about future 

cash ˚ows.
   
Financial liabilities
   
Classi˜cation
    
The Company classi˜es all ˜nancial liabilities as subsequently measured at amortised cost, except 
for ˜nancial liabilities at fair value through pro˜t or loss. Such liabilities, including derivatives 

that are liabilities, shall be subsequently measured at fair value.
   
Initial recognition and measur
ement
    
Financial liabilities are classi˜ed, at initial recognition, as ˜nancial liabilities at fair value 
through pro˜t or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging 

instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
    
All ˜nancial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings 
and payables, net of directly attributable and incremental transaction cost.
    
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and 
fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as ˜nance costs 

in the statement of pro˜t and loss.
    
The Company™s ˜nancial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings 
including bank overdrafts and derivative ˜nancial instruments.
   
Derecognition
    
A ˜nancial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing ˜nancial liability is replaced by another from the same 

lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially 

modi˜ed, such an exchange or modi˜cation is treated as the derecognition of the original 

liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts 

is recognised in the statement of pro˜t or loss.
   
Offsetting of ˜nancial instruments
    
Financial assets and ˜nancial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance 
sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is 

an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
 
i)
 
Valuation of Inventories:
   
Inventories of Raw Materials, Packing Materials, Stores and Spares, Work-in Progress, T
raded goods 
and Finished goods are valued ‚at cost and net realisable value™ whichever is lower. Cost comprises all 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
73
cost of purchase, appropriate direct production overheads and other costs incurred in bringing the 
inventories to their present location and condition. The excise duty in respect of the closing inventory 

of ˜nished goods is included as part of the ˜nished goods. Cost formulae used is ‚Weighted Average 

Cost™. Due allowance is estimated and made for defective and obsolete items, wherever necessary, 

based on the past experience of the Company. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the 

ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary 

to make the sale. Raw materials and other supplies held for use in the production of inventories are 

not written down below cost except in case where material prices have declined and it is estimated 

that the cost of the ˜nished product will exceed its net realisable value.
 
j)
 
Employee Bene˜ts:
  
Short Term Employee Bene˜ts
   
All employee bene˜ts payable within twelve months of rendering the service are recognised in the 
period in which the employee renders the related service.
  
Post Employment / Retirement Bene˜ts
   
Contribution to De˜ned Contribution Plans such as Provident Fund, Employees™ State Insurance 
Corporation, etc., are charged to the Statement of Pro˜t and Loss as incurred.

an actuarial valuation by an independent actuary at the end of each year, using the Projected Unit 

Credit Method. In the case of gratuity, which is funded, the fair value of the plan assets is reduced 

from the gross obligation under the de˜ned bene˜t plans, to recognise the obligation on net basis.
   
Remeasurement of net de˜ned bene˜t liability, which comprises actuarial gains and losses and the 
return on plan assets (excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any excluding interest), 

are recognized immediately in other comprehensive income.
  
Other Long Term Employee Bene˜ts
  
Compensated Absences
   
Accumulated compensated absences, which are expected to be availed or encashed within 12 months 
from the end of the year end are treated as short term employee bene˜ts. The obligation towards 

the same is measured at the expected cost of accumulating compensated absences as the additional 

amount expected to be paid as a result of the unused entitlement as at the year end. Accumulated 

compensated absences, which are expected to be availed or encashed beyond 12 months from the 

end of the year end are treated as other long term employee bene˜ts. The Company™s liability is 

actuarially determined (using the Projected Unit Credit method) at the end of each year. Actuarial 

losses/ gains are recognised in the Statement of Pro˜t and Loss in the year in which they arise.
 
k)
 
Foreign Exchange T
ransactions:
   
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of the 
Company at the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
   
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional 
currency at the exchange rate at the reporting date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are 

measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency at the exchange 

rate when the fair value was determined. Foreign currency differences are generally recognised in 

pro˜t or loss. Non-monetary items that are measured based on historical cost in a foreign currency are 

translated using the exchange rate as at the date of the transaction.
 
l)
 
Borrowing Costs:
   
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset that 
necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part 

of the cost of that asset till the date it is ready for its intended use or sale. Other borrowing costs are 

recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
 
m)
 
Recognition of Income and Expenditure:
  
i)
  
Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration received 

or receivable, net of returns and allowances, trade discounts and volume rebates. Revenue is 

recognised when signi˜cant risks and rewards of ownership in the goods are transferred to 

the buyer. Revenues are recognized when collectability of the resulting receivable is reasonably 

assured.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
74
  
ii)
 
Income from Services is recognised on completion of service.
  
iii)
  
Revenue/Income and Cost/Expenditure are accounted on accrual as they are earned or incurred, 
except in case of signi˜cant uncertainties.
  
iv)
  
Bene˜t on account of entitlement to import duty-free raw materials under advance license is 

estimated and accounted in the year of export as an adjustment to raw material consumption, 

provided there is a reasonable degree of certainty with regard to its ultimate realisation.
  
v)
 
Liability for excise duty payable on stock in bonded warehouse at the year-end is provided for.
  
vi)
  
Dividend income and keyman insurance policy refund is recognised when the right to receive 

the income is established.
  
vii)
 
Interest income is recognised on an effective interest rate basis.
  
viii)
  
Product warranty expenses are determined / estimated and provided for on the basis of the past 

experience of the Company.
 
n)
 
Leases
 
:

    
Payments made 
under operating leases are recognised in pro˜t or loss on a straight line basis 
over the term of the lease unless such payments are structured to increase in line with expected 

general in˚ation to compensate for the lessor™s expected in˚ationary cost increase. Lease 

incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense, over the term 

of the lease.
    
Minimum lease payments made under ˜nance leases are apportioned between the ˜nance 
expense and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The ˜nance expense is allocated to 

each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the 

remaining balance of the liability.

    
Assets held by the Company under leases that transfer to the Company substantially all of the 
risks and rewards of ownership are classi˜ed as ˜nance leases. The leased assets are measured 

initially at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum 

lease payments. Subsequent to initial recognition, the assets are accounted for in accordance 

with the accounting policy applicable to that asset.
    
Assets held under other leases are classi˜ed as operating leases and are not recognised in the 
Company™s statement of ˜nancial position.
 
o)
 
Impairment of non-˜nancial assets
   
The carrying 
values of assets/cash generating units at each balance sheet date are reviewed for 
impairment if any indication of impairment exists. If the carrying amount of the assets exceed the 

estimated recoverable amount, an impairment is recognised for such excess amount.
   
The recoverable amount is 
the greater of the net selling price and their value in use. Value in use 
is arrived at by discounting the future cash ˚ows to their present value based on an appropriate 

discount factor.
   
When there 
is indication that an impairment loss recognised for an asset (other than a revalued 
asset) in earlier accounting periods which no longer exists or may have decreased, such reversal of 

impairment loss is recognised in the Statement of Pro˜t and Loss, to the extent the amount was 

previously charged to the Statement of Pro˜t and Loss. In case of revalued assets, such reversal is not 

recognised.
 
p)
 
Cash and cash equivalents
   
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term 
deposits with remaining maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insigni˜cant risk of 

changes in value.
   
For the 
purpose of the statement of cash ˚ows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-
term deposits, as de˜ned above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as they are considered an integral 

part of the Company™s cash management.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
75
 
q)
 
T
axation:
   
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. It is recognised in pro˜t or loss except to the 
extent that it relates to a business combination, or items recognised directly in equity or in OCI.
i
Current tax
    
Current tax comprises the expected tax payable 
or receivable on the taxable income or loss for 
the year and any adjustment to the tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years. It is 
measured using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Current tax 

also includes any tax arising from dividends.
   
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only if, the Company:
   
a)
 
 has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts; and
   
b)
  
intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability 

simultaneously.
ii
Deferred tax
    
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for ˜nancial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation 

purposes. Deferred tax is not recognised for:


is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable pro˜t or loss;


that the Company is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences 

and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and


    
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses, unused tax credits and deductible 
temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that future taxable pro˜ts will be available 

against which they can be used. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are 

reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax bene˜t will be realised; 

such reductions are reversed when the probability of future taxable pro˜ts improves.
    
Unrecognized deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and recognised to the 
extent that it has become probable that future taxable pro˜ts will be available against which 

they can be used.
    
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences 
when they reverse, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
    
The measurement of deferred tax re˚ects the tax consequences that would follow from the 
manner in which the Company expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying 

amount of its assets and liabilities.
   
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only if:
a
The entity has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 

liabilities; and
b
The deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the 

same taxation authority on the same taxable entity.
    
Deferred tax asset / liabilities in respect of on temporary differences which originate and reverse 
during the tax holiday period are not recognised. Deferred tax assets / liabilities in respect of 

temporary differences that originate during the tax holiday period but reverse after the tax 

holiday period are recognised.
 
r)
 
Government Grants:
   
Grants received from the government are recognized at their fair value where there is reasonable 
assurance that the grant will be received and the Company will comply with the conditions.
   
Government grants 
related to income are deferred and recognized in the pro˜t or loss over the 
period necessary to match them with the costs that they are intended to compensate and netted off 

with the expense in the statement of pro˜t and loss.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
76
   
Government grants related to purchase of property plant and equipment are recognised as deferred 
income and are credited to pro˜t or loss on a straight line basis over expected life of the related asset 
and presented within other income.
 
s)
 
Provisions, Contingent Assets and Contingent Liabilities:
   
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ˚ows speci˜c to the liability. The 
unwinding of the discount is recognised as ˜nance cost. A provision for onerous contracts is measured 

at the present value of the lower of the expected cost of terminating the contract and the expected 

net cost of continuing with the contract. Before a provision is established, the Company recognises 

any impairment loss on the assets associated with that contract.
   
A disclosure for a contingent liability is made when there is a possible obligation or a present 
obligation that may, but will probably not, require an out˚ow of resources. When there is a possible 

obligation or a present obligation in respect of which the likelihood of out˚ow of resources is remote, 

no provision or disclosure is made.
   
A contingent asset is not recognised but disclosed in the ˜nancial statements where an in˚ow of 
economic bene˜t is probable.
33.
 
Contingent Liabilities and commitments to the extent not provided for in r
espect of:
 
a)
 
Contingent liabilities :-
(
` 
in lakhs)
31
st
 March, 2018
31
st
 March, 2017
i)
Excise and Service Tax matters
525.13
504.69
ii)
Sales Tax matters *
1,227.32
2,624.06
iii)
Income Tax matters
-
3.39
iv)
On account of Cross Subsidy Surcharge on electricity
9.38
9.38
  
*
 
Includes 
`
 972.61 lakhs (Previous Year 
`
 972.61 lakhs) paid in full against the disputed Sales Tax 
liability under the Kerala General Sales Tax Act, 1963. The matter is pending for hearing in the 

Honorable Supreme Court of India.
   
Note: The Excise and Service Tax, Sales T
ax and Income Tax demands are being contested by the 
Company at various levels. The Company has been legally advised that it has a good case and the 

demands by the authorities are not tenable. Future cash ˚ows in respect of these are determinable 

only on receipt of judgements / decisions pending with various forums/ authorities.
 
b)
 
Commitments
   
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for (net 
of advances) 
` 
1,307.16 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 1,185.96 lakhs).
34.
 
Provision for warranty and other provisions:
(
`
 in Lakhs)
31
st
 March, 2018
31
st
 March, 2018
31
st
 March, 2017
31
st
 March, 2017
Warranty 
Provision
Other 
Provisions
Warranty 
Provision
Other 
Provisions
Opening Balance
562.86
100.00
514.62
75.00
Additions
482.33
0.00
624.65
35.00
Utilisations / Reversals
496.85
0.00
576.41
10.00
Closing Balance
548.34
100.00
562.86
100.00
  
Provision is estimated for expected warranty claim in respect of products sold during the year based on past 
experience regarding defective claim of products and cost of recti˜cation or replacement. It is expected 
that most of this cost will be incurred over next 12
 
months which is as per warranty terms.
  
Other provisions 
are provisions in respect of probable claims, the out˚ow of which would depend on the 
cessation of the respective events.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
77
35.
 
Share capital
 
a)
  
Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to Equity Shares:
 The Company has only one class 
of equity shares having a par value of 
`
10 per share. Each shareholder is eligible for one vote per share 
held. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in 
the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, 

the equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution 

of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding.
 
b)
  
Details of equity shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate 

equity shares in the Company:
Name of the Shareholder
As at 31
st
 March, 2018
As at 31
st
 March, 2017
No. of
shares held
% of 
Holding
No. of
shares held
% of 
Holding
Vamanrai V. Parekh
1,033,558
6.93%
1,033,558
6.93%
Nilkamal Builders Private Limited
1,464,000
9.81%
1,464,000
9.81%
Hiten V. Parekh
1,474,105
9.88%
1,594,105
10.68%
Nayan S. Parekh
1,750,277
11.73%
1,900,277
12.73%
Heirloom Finance Private Limited
912,000
6.11%
912,000
6.11%
Manish V. Parekh
1,071,658
7.18%
1,191,658
7.99%
 
C)
  
Reconciliation of number of equity shares outstanding as on beginning and closing of the 

year
Particulars
2017-18
2016-17
Number
`
 (in Lakhs)
Number
`
 (in Lakhs)
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the 

year
14,922,525
1,492.25
14,922,525
1,492.25
Shares issued during the year
-
-
-
-
Shares bought back during the year
-
-
-
-
Shares outstanding at the end of the year
14,922,525
1,492.25
14,922,525
1,492.25
36.
 
Borrowings:
 
(A)
 
Secured loans:
  
a)
 
Working Capital loans :
    
Working capital facilities of 
`
 9,290.75 Lakhs (Previous year 
`
 8,280.56 Lakhs) from Banks are 
secured on ˜rst pari passu basis by way of hypothecation of current assets (Inventories and trade 

receivables) of the Company, second pari passu charge by way of equitable mortgage on the 

Company™s immoveable property and Personal guarantee of Director/s. Working Capital Loans 

repayable on Demand having Interest Rate from 8.65% to 9.65% (Previous Year 9.30% p.a to 

10.50% p.a).
 
(B)
  
Commercial Paper balance outstanding at year end 
` 
Nil (Previous Year 
`
 Nil). Maximum balance 
outstanding during the year 
`
 
5,000 Lakhs (Previous Year 
`
 5,000 Lakhs).
37.
 
Cross Currency Interest Rate Swap:
 
Derivative Instruments outstanding at the Balance Sheet date:
 
(a)
 
Forward Contracts against imports:
   
Forward contracts to buy USD
 
46.22 lakhs (Previous Year USD 21.00 lakhs) amounting to 
`
 3,019.04 
lakhs (Previous Year 
`
 1,401.94 lakhs).
   
The above contracts have been undertaken to hedge against the foreign exchange exposures arising 
from transactions like import of goods.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
78
38.
 
Dues to micro and small suppliers
  
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, (MSMED) which came into force 
from 2 October 2006, certain disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium 
enterprises. On the basis of the information and records available with the management, there are no 

outstanding dues to the Micro and Small enterprises as de˜ned in the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 

Development Act, 2006.
Particulars
31
st
 March, 2018
31
st
 March, 2017
Principal amount remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the year end
-
-
Interest due thereon
-
-
Amount of interest paid by the Company in terms of section 16 of the 

MSMED, along with the amount of the payment made to the supplier 

beyond the appointed day during the accounting year
-
-
Amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 

payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during 

the period) but without adding the interest speci˜ed under the MSMED
-
-
Amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of the 

accounting year
-
-
39.
 
Related Party Disclosures:
 
Names of related parties and description of relationship
I
Subsidiaries where control exists
Nilkamal Eswaran Plastics Pvt. Ltd.
Nilkamal Eswaran Marketing Pvt. Ltd.

Nilkamal Crates and Bins, FZE.
Nilkamal Foundation (Section 8 Company)
II
Joint Ventures
Nilkamal Bito Storage Systems Pvt. Ltd.
Cambro Nilkamal Pvt. Ltd.
III
Key Management Personnel
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh, Chairman

Mr. Sharad V. Parekh, Managing Director

Mr. Hiten V. Parekh, Joint Managing Director

Mr. Manish V. Parekh, President and Executive 
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh, President and Executive 
Independent Director:
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy

Mr. Mahendra V. Doshi

Mr. Mufazzal S. Federal

Mr. S. K. Palekar

Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani

Mr. Krishnamurthi Venkataraman
IV
Relatives of Key Management Personnel
Mrs. Dhruvi Nakul Kumar
Mr. Mihir H. Parekh
Ms. Priyanka H. Parekh
V
Enterprise owned or signi˜cantly in˚uenced by 

key Management Personnel or their relatives, 

where transactions have taken place
Nilkamal Crates & Containers
 

M. Tech Industries
 

Raga Plast Pvt Ltd.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
79
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Subsidiaries
Joint 
Venture
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises 
owned or 
signi˜cantly 
in˚uenced 
by key 
management 
personnel or 
their relatives
Total
Subsidiaries
Joint 
Venture
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises 
owned or 
signi˜cantly 
in˚uenced 
by key 
management 
personnel or 
their relatives
Total
2017-18
2017-18
2017-18
2017-18
2017-18
2017-18
2016-17
2016-17
2016-17
2016-17
2016-17
2016-17
Sales of Finished Goods / Others
900.73
1,040.78
-
-
33.53
1,975.04
830.92
894.64
-
-
50.81
1,776.37
Sales of Fixed Assets
15.66
-
-
-
-
15.66
0.48
-
-
-
58.13
58.61
Purchases of raw materials, intermediaries 
and ˜nished goods
1.62
710.19
-
-
933.11
1,644.92
25.98
854.85
-
-
585.92
1466.75
Paid for services and labour charges
-
4.69
-
-
320.13
324.82
-
-
-
-
207.83
207.83
Received for services & labour charges
-
39.68
-
-
-
39.68
-
49.00
-
-
-
49.00
Deputation Charges
75.27
75.27
153.32
153.32
Technical and Management Fees received
30.64
676.65
-
-
-
707.29
38.39
552.96
-
-
-
591.35
Dividend received
443.26
31.50
-
-
-
474.76
806.16
131.40
-
-
-
937.56
Purchase of ˜xed assets
-
 587.59
-
587.59
-
134.17
-
4.60
138.77
Rent paid
-
-
-
-
285.07
285.07
-
-
-
-
266.06
266.06
Remuneration to Directors
-
-
1,434.29
-
-
1,434.29
-
-
1,263.32
-
-
1,263.32
Salary Paid
-
-
-
38.61
-
38.61
-
-
-
34.57
-
34.57
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses 

(CSR)
256.00
-
-
-
-
256.00
122.60
-
-
-
-
122.60
Board & Audit Committee Sitting fees
-
-
20.90
-
-
20.90
-
-
17.60
-
-
17.60
Rent Received
6.71
-
-
-
-
6.71
8.80
7.92
-
-
-
16.72
Reimbursement of Expenses
13.19
70.96
-
-
91.16
175.31
-
100.96
-
-
85.38
186.34
Deposits Receivable
-
-
-
-
720.00
720.00
-
-
-
-
720.00
720.00
Other Receivables
231.49
574.97
-
-
9.77
816.23
104.85
523.87
-
-
22.57
651.29
Other Payables
-
74.57
-
-
33.20
107.77
-
72.74
-
-
32.78
105.52
For working capital facilities guarantee 

jointly given by Mr. Vaman Parekh,
 
 Mr. Sharad Parekh and Mr. Hiten Parekh
-
-
9,290.75
-
-
9,290.75
-
-
8,280.56
-
-
8,280.56
Note : 1.
  
The remuneration paid to key managerial personal excludes gratuity and compensated absences as the provision is computed for th
e Company as a whole and separate ˜gures are not available.
 
2.
 
 
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm™s length transactions. Outstanding balances at the year
-end are unsecured.
39.
 
Related Party Disclosures (Contd.) :
80
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
40.
 
(a)
 
(i)   Operating Lease in respect of Pr
operties taken on Lease:
 
The Company has taken warehouses, showrooms, offices under operating leases. The agreements are 
executed for the period of 36 to 240 months with a non cancellable period upto 60 months. For certain 
properties taken on lease, contingent rent payable as a percentage of revenue from the respective stores, 

subject to a minimum rent.
         
 
(
`
Particulars
2017-18
2016-17
A
Lease payments recognised in the Statement of Pro˜t and Loss (includes 

contingent rent of 
`
 202.82 lakhs (Previous Year 
` 
222.70 lakhs)
4,198.52
4,103.13
B
Future minimum Lease Payments under non cancelable agreements.
i)
 
Not later than one year
1,440.76
1,196.98
ii)
 
Later than one year and not later than 5 years
3,478.74
2,718.80
iii)
 
Later than 5 years
1,048.36
156.65
  
(ii)
 
   Operating Lease in respect of Other Assets taken on Lease:
 
 
 
 
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
2017-18
2016-17
A
Lease payments recognised in the Statement of Pro˜t and Loss
826.93
648.36
b
Future minimum Lease Payments under non cancelable agreements.
i)
 
Not later than one year
759.25
670.75
ii)
 
Later than one year and not later than 5 years
1,045.21
1,182.62
iii)
 
Later than 5 years
-
-
 
The agreement is executed with a non cancelable period upto 60 months (Previous Year 60 months).
(b)
 
Assets given on Operating Lease:
 
The Company has leased out some of its Material Handling equipments. The lease term is in the range 
of 36-60 months. There is no escalation or renewal clause in the lease agreements and sub-letting is not 

permitted. Rent income during the year 
`
 
8.92 lakhs. (Previous Year 
`
 18.99 lakhs). The carrying amounts of 
equipments given on operating leases and depreciation thereon for the period are:
        
 
 
 
(
`
Particulars
2017-18
2016-17
i)
Gross Carrying Amount
61.55
61.55
ii)
Depreciation for the Year
8.01
8.01
iii)
Accumulated Depreciation
24.03
16.02
The Total future Minimum rentals receivable at the Balance Sheet 

Date Is as Under
i)
For a period not later than one year
1.08
2.30
ii)
For a period more than one year but not later than 5 years
-
-
iii)
For a period later than 5 years
-
-
41.
 
Information on Joint Ventur
es:
 
Jointly Controlled Entities:
Name of the Joint Venture
Country
of Incorporation
Percentage of 
Ownership Interest
Nilkamal Bito Storage Systems Pvt. Ltd.
India
50
Cambro Nilkamal Pvt Ltd.
India
50
 
Investment in Joint Ventures have been accounted at cost in the standalone financial statements.
81
42.
 
In accordance with IND AS 108 Œ Operating Segment, segment information has been given in the 
Consolidated Financial Statement of Nilkamal Limited and therefore no separate disclosure on segment 

information is given in these financial statements.
43.
 
Subsequent Events :
 
There are no significant subsequent events that would require adjustments or disclosures in the financial 
statements as on the balance sheet date.
44.
 
Disclosure of Speci˜ed Bank Notes :
 
The disclosures regarding details of specified bank notes held and transacted during 8 November, 2016 to 
30 December, 2016 has not been made since the requirement does not pertain to financial year ended 31
st
 
March, 2018. Corresponding amounts as appearing in the audited standalone Ind AS financial statements 

for the period ended 31
st
 March, 2017 has been disclosed in the table below:
 (
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
Speci˜ed Bank 
Notes
Other denomination 
Notes
Total
Closing cash in hand as on 08.11.2016
102.59
74.91
177.50
(+) Permitted receipts *
-
661.70
661.70
(-) Permitted payments
-
126.93
126.93
(-) Amount deposited in Banks *
102.59
337.46
440.05
Closing cash in hand as on 30.12.2016
-
272.22
272.22
 
* These amounts includes 
`
 228.67 lakhs which have been directly deposited in the Bank by the customers 
of the Company.
45.
 
Corporate Social Responsibility :
 
As required by Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013 and rules therein, a Corporate social responsibility 
committee has been formed by the Company. The Company has spent the following amount during the 

year towards corporate social responsibility (CSR) for activities listed under schedule VII of the Companies 

Act, 2013
 
(a)
 
 
Gross amount required to be spent by the Company 
during the year 2017-18 
`
 258.74 lakhs (Previous 
year 
` 
183.80 lakhs).
 
(b)
 
Amount spent during the year on:
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
2017-18
2016-17
 
(i) Construction/ acquisition of any asset

 (ii) On purpose other than (i) above
-
259.02
-
183.87
46.
 
Proposed Dividend:
 
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 11th May, 2018 have recommended a payment of final 
dividend of 
`
 9 (Rupees nine only) per equity share of face value of 
`
 10 each for the financial year ended 
31st March, 2018. The same amounts to 
`
 1,343.03 lakhs excluding dividend distribution tax of 
`
 256.93 
lakhs same is subject to approval at the ensuing Annual General Meeting of the Company and hence is not 

recognised as a liability.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
82
47. 
Financial instruments Œ Fair values and risk management
A. Accounting classi˜cation and fair values
Carrying amounts and fair values of ˜nancial assets and ˜nancial liabilities, including their levels in the fair 
value hierarchy, are presented below. It does not include the fair value information for ˜nancial assets and 

˜nancial liabilities not measured at fair value if the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value. 
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2018
 Carrying amount
 Fair value
 FVTPL
 FVTOCI
Amortised
 Total
 Level 1
 Level 2
 Level 3
 Total
Financial assets
 
Non Current

 Unquoted Equity Shares *
 38.00 
-
 0.32 
 38.32 
-
-
-
 -   
 Employee Loans
-
-
 377.09 
 377.09 
-
-
-
-
 Security Deposits
-
-
 1,937.21 
 1,937.21 
-
 1,937.21 
-
 1,937.21 
 Other ˜nancial assets
-
-
 116.83 
 116.83 
-
-
-
 -   
 Trade receivables
-
-
 33,148.88 
 33,148.88 
-
-
-
 -   
 Cash and cash equivalents
-
-
 921.15 
 921.15 
-
-
-
 -   
 Other bank balances
-
-
 219.66 
 219.66 
-
-
-
 -   
 Loans
-
-
 736.72 
 736.72 
-
 736.72 
-
 736.72 
 Other Current Financial Assets
-
-
 31.74 
 31.74 
-
-
-
 -   
 38.00 
 -   
 37,489.60 
 37,527.60 
 -   
 2,673.93 
 -   
 2,673.93 
Financial liabilities

Current borrowings
-
-
 9,290.75 
 9,290.75 
-
-
-
 -   
Trade and other payables
-
-
 16,883.02 
 16,883.02 
-
-
-
 -   
Other Non-Current ˜nancial liabilities
-
-
 4,988.95 
 4,988.95 
-
 4,988.95 
-
 4,988.95 
Other Current ˜nancial liabilities
-
-
 1,429.18 
 1,429.18 
-
-
-
 -   
 -   
 -   
 32,591.90 
 32,591.90 
 -   
 4,988.95 
 -   
 4,988.95 
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2017
 Carrying amount
 Fair value
 FVTPL
 FVTOCI
Amortised
Cost
 Total
 Level 1
 Level 2
 Level 3
 Total
Financial assets
 
Non Current

 Unquoted Equity Shares *
 38.00 
-
 0.32 
 38.32 
-
-
-
 -   
 Loans to Employees
-
-
 376.47 
 376.47 
-
-
-
-
 Security Deposits
-
-
 1,875.74 
 1,875.74 
-
1,875.74
-
1,875.74
 Other ˜nancial assets
-
-
 282.44 
 282.44 
-
-
-
 -   
 Trade receivables
-
-
 29,002.24 
 29,002.24 
-
-
-
 -   
 Cash and cash equivalents
-
-
 522.75 
 522.75 
-
-
-
 -   
 Other bank balances
-
-
 81.51 
 81.51 
-
-
-
 -   
 Loans
-
-
 565.26 
 565.26 
-
565.26
-
565.26
 Other Current Financial Assets
-
-
 64.17
 64.17
-
-
-
 -   
 38.00 
 -   
 32,770.90 
 32,808.90 
 - 
 2,441.00 
 - 
 2,441.00
Financial liabilitie
s

Short term borrowings
-
-
 8,280.56 
 8,280.56 
-
-
-
 -   
Trade and other payables
-
-
 10,928.63 
 10,928.63 
-
-
-
 -   
Other Non-Current ˜nancial liabilities
-
-
 4,620.51 
 4,620.51 
-
4,620.51
-
4,620.51
Other Current ˜nancial liabilities
-
-
 2,329.60
 2,329.60
-
-
-
 -   
 -   
 -   
 26,159.30 
 26,159.30 
 - 
 4,620.51 
 - 
 4,620.51
* 
 
The fair value respect of the Unqvoted equity investments is equal to the cost of the investments as per 
the contractual agreements.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
83
B.   Measurement of fair values
Valuation techniques and signi˜cant unobservable inputs

The following tables show the valuation techniques used in measuring Level 2 and Level 3 fair values, as 
well as the signi˜cant unobservable inputs used.
Financial instruments measured at fair value
Type
 Valuation technique 
Forward contracts
The fair value is determined using forward exchange rates at 
the reporting date. 
Security Deposits
The valuation model considers present value of expected 

payments discounted using an appropriate discounting rate. 
Interest rate swaps
Present value of the estimated future cash ˚ows based on 

observable yield curves 
C.  Financial risk management
The Company has exposure to the following risks arising from ˜nancial instruments:
Credit risk ;
Liquidity risk ; and
Market risk
i. 
 
 Risk management framework
The Company™s Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of 
the Company™s Risk Management framework. The Board of Directors have adopted an Enterprise Risk 

Management Policy framed by the Company, which identi˜es the risk and lays down the risk minimization 

procedures. The Management reviews the Risk management policies and systems on a regular basis to 

re˚ect changes in market conditions and the Company™s activities, and the same is reported to the Board 

of Directors periodically. Further, the Company, in order to deal with the future risks, has in place various 

methods / processes which have been imbibed in its organizational structure and proper internal controls 

are in place to keep a check on lapses, and the same are been modi˜ed in accordance with the regular 

requirements.
The Audit Committee oversees how Management monitors compliance with the Company™s Risk 
Management policies and procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in 

relation to the risks faced by the Company. The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by the 

internal auditors.
ii. Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of ˜nancial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to a ˜nancial 
instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Company's receivables 

from customers and loans and advances.
The carrying amount of following ˜nancial assets represents the maximum credit exposure:
Trade receivables and loans and advances.

The Company™s exposure to credit risk is in˚uenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each 
customer in which it operates. Credit risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing credit limits 

and continuously monitoring the creditworthiness of customers to which the Company grants credit terms 

in the normal course of business. 
The Risk Management Committee has established a credit policy under which each new customer is 
analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Company™s standard payment and delivery terms and 

conditions are offered. Further for domestic sales, the company segments the customers into Distributors 

and Others for credit monitoring.
The Company maintains security deposits for sales made to its distributors. For other trade receivables, 
the company individually monitors the sanctioned credit limits as against the outstanding balances. 

Accordingly, the Company makes speci˜c provisions against such trade receivables wherever required and 

monitors the same at periodic intervals.

The Company monitors each loans and advances given and makes any speci˜c provision wherever required.
The Company establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of expected losses in 
respect of trade receivables and loans and advances.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
84
Impairment
At 31
st
 March , 2018, the ageing of trade receivables was as follows.
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Carrying amount 
 31
st
 March, 2018 
31
st
 March 2017
Neither past due nor impaired
 18,530.10 
14,901.23
 11,010.80 
10,631.44
 1,728.65 
1,704.11
Past due 181-365 days
 1,446.40 
1,432.28
Past due 366 days
 1,077.96 
1,002.44
 33,793.91 
29,671.50
Management believes that the unimpaired amounts which are past due are collectible in full.
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Trade 
receivables 
Impairments 
Loans
Balance as at 1
st
 April , 2016
 525.32 
52.05
Impairment loss recognised
 420.42 
-
Balance written back
 (276.48)
-
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2017
 669.26 
52.05
Impairment loss recognised
 475.72 
-
Balance written back
 (260.42)
-
Amounts written off
 (239.53)
-
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2018
 645.03 
52.05
Cash and cash equivalents and other Bank balances
The Company held cash and cash equivalents and other bank balances of 
`
 1,140.81 lakhs as on 31
st
 March 
2018 (Previous year 
`
 604.26 lakhs). The cash and cash equivalents are held with bank counterparties with 
good credit ratings. 
Derivatives
The derivatives are entered into with bank counterparties with good credit ratings. 
Loans and Advances:
The Company held Loans and advances of 
`
 3,199.59 lakhs as on March 31 2018 (Previous year 
`
 3,164.08 
lakhs). The loans and advances are in nature of rent deposit paid to landlords, bank deposits with maturity 
more than twelve months and others and are fully recoverable.
iii. Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter dif˜culty in meeting the obligations associated 
with its ˜nancial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another ˜nancial asset. The Company™s 

approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have suf˜cient liquidity to meet its 

liabilities when they are due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable 

losses or risking damage to the Company™s reputation.
As of 31st March, 2018 and 31st March, 2017 the Company had unutilized credit limits from banks of 
 
` 
8,209 lakhs and 
`
 12,819 lakhs respectively.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
85
47
Financial instruments Œ Fair values and risk management (Continued)
C. Financial risk management (Continued)

Maturity pro˜le of ˜nancial liabilities

The following are the remaining contractual maturities of ˜nancial liabilities at the reporting date. The 
amounts are gross and undiscounted, and include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of 

netting agreements.
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2018
Carrying 
amount
Contractual cash ˚ows
Total
Less than 
6 months
6-12 
months
1-2 
years
More 
than 5 
years
Non-derivative ˜nancial liabilities
Working Capital Borrowings
 9,290.75 
 9,290.75 
 9,290.75 
Trade and other payables
 13,863.98 
 13,863.98 
 13,863.98 
Other ˜nancial liabilities
 1,429.18 
 1,429.18 
 1,429.18 
Derivative ˜nancial liabilities

Forward exchange contracts used for hedging

- Out˚ow
 3,019.04 
 3,019.04 
 3,019.04 
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2017
 Carrying 
amount 
 Contractual cash ˚ows 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6-12 
months 
 1-2 
years 
More 
than 5 
years
Non-derivative ˜nancial liabilities

Working Capital Borrowings
 8,280.56 
 8,280.56 
 8,280.56 
Trade and other payables
 9,526.69 
 9,526.69 
 9,526.69 
Other ˜nancial liabilities
 2,329.60 
 2,329.60 
 2,329.60 
Derivative ˜nancial liabilities

Forward exchange contracts used for hedging

- Out˚ow
 1,401.94 
 1,401.94 
 1,401.94 
The gross in˚ows/(out˚ows) disclosed in the above table represent the contractual undiscounted cash 
˚ows relating to the ˜nancial liabilities which are not usually closed out before contractual maturity. The 

disclosure shows net cash ˚ow amounts for derivatives that are net cash-settled and gross cash in˚ow and 

out˚ow amounts for derivatives that have simultaneous gross cash settlement.
iv. Market risk


Market risk is attributable to all market risk sensitive ˜nancial instruments including foreign currency 
receivables and payables and long term debt. We are exposed to market risk primarily related to foreign 

exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and the market value of our investments. Thus, our exposure to 

market risk is a function of investing and borrowing activities and revenue generating and operating 

activities in foreign currency. The objective of market risk management is to avoid excessive exposure in 

our foreign currency revenues and costs.
Currency risk
The Company is exposed to currency risk on account of its borrowings and other payables in foreign 
currency. The functional currency of the Company is Indian Rupee. The Company uses forward exchange 

contracts to hedge its currency risk, most with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
86
47
Financial instruments Œ Fair values and risk management (Continued)
C. Financial risk management (Continued)

Exposure to currency risk (Exposure in different currencies converted to functional currency i.e. 
INR)
The currency pro˜le of ˜nancial assets and ˜nancial liabilities as at 31
st
 March, 2018 and 31
st
 March, 2017 
are as below:
(
` 
in lakhs)
31st March, 2018
 USD 
 EURO 
 GBP 
 JPY 
Financial assets 

Trade and other receivables
 1,469.29 
 441.01 
 16.76 
 - 
 1,469.29 
 441.01 
 16.76 
 - 
Financial liabilities 

Trade and other payables
 4,109.76 
 80.57 
 - 
 - 
Forecasted Purchase 
 - 
Less: Forward contracts
 (3,019.04)
 - 
 1,090.72 
 80.57 
 - 
 - 
Net Exposure
 378.57 
 360.45 
 16.76 
 - 
(
` 
in lakhs)
31st March, 2017
 USD 
 EURO 
 GBP 
JPY
Financial assets 

Trade and other receivables
 1,426.70 
 215.46 
 12.14 
 31.81 
 1,426.70 
 215.46 
 12.14 
 31.81 
Financial liabilities 

Trade and other payables
 1,160.17 
 124.70 
 - 
Forecasted Purchase 
 201.68 
Less: Forward contracts
 (1,361.85)
 - 
 124.70 
 - 
 - 
Net Exposure
 1,426.70 
 90.76 
 12.14 
 31.81 
The following signi˜cant exchange rates have been applied during the year.
INR
Year-end spot rate
31st March, 2018
31st March, 2017
USD 1
 65.17 
 64.85 
EUR1
 80.17 
 69.28 
JPY100
 0.61 
 0.60 
GBP1
 91.71 
 80.95 
Sensitivity analysis

A reasonably possible strengthening (weakening) of the foreign Currency against the Indian Rupee at 
31st March would have affected the measurement of ˜nancial instruments denominated in foreign 

currencies and affected equity and pro˜t or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that 

all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant and ignores any impact of forecast sales 

and purchases.
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2018
31st March, 2017
Pro˜t or loss
Pro˜t or loss
Effect in INR
Strengthening
Weakening
Strengthening
Weakening
USD - 3% Movement
 11.36 
 (11.36)
 42.80 
 (42.80)
EUR - 3% Movement
 10.81 
 (10.81)
 2.72 
 (2.72)
JPY - 3% Movement
 - 
 - 
 0.95 
 (0.95)
GBP - 3% Movement
 0.50 
 (0.50)
 0.36 
 (0.36)
 22.67 
 (22.67)
 46.83 
 (46.83)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
87
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk can be either fair value interest rate risk or cash flow interest rate risk. Fair value interest 
rate risk is the risk of changes in fair values of fixed interest bearing investments because of fluctuations 

in the interest rates. Cash flow interest rate risk is the risk that the future cash flows of floating interest 

bearing investments will fluctuate because of fluctuations in the interest rates. 
Exposure to interest rate risk
Company™s interest rate risk arises from borrowings. The interest rate profile of the Company™s interest-
bearing financial instruments as reported to the management of the Company is as follows.
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2018
31st March, 2017
Borrowings
Variable rate borrowings
 9,290.75 
 8,280.56 
Total
 9,290.75 
 8,280.56 
Cash ˚ow sensitivity analysis for variable-rate instruments
A reasonably possible change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have 
increased (decreased) profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other 

variables, in particular foreign currency exchange rates, remain constant.
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
Pro˜t or (loss)
100 bp increase
100 bp decrease
March 31, 2018
Variable-rate instruments
 (92.91)
 92.91 
Cash ˚ow sensitivity (net)
 (92.91) 
 92.91 
March 31, 2017

Variable-rate instruments
(82.81)
 82.81 
Cash ˚ow sensitivity (net)
 (82.81)
 82.81 
The risk estimates provided assume a parallel shift of 100 basis points interest rate across all yield curves. This 
calculation also assumes that the change occurs at the balance sheet date and has been calculated based 

on risk exposures outstanding as at that date. The period end balances are not necessarily representative 

of the average debt outstanding during the period. 
48
Capital Management
For the purpose of the Company's capital management, capital includes issued capital and other equity 

reserves . The primary objective of the Company™s Capital Management is to maximise shareholders value. 

The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in the light of changes in economic 

environment and the requirements of the ˜nancial covenants.
The Company monitors capital using debt to equity ratio. 
(
`
 in lakhs)
As at 31st March, 2018
As at 31st March, 2017
Current Borrowings
 9,290.75 
 8,280.56 
Gross Debt
 9,290.75 
 8,280.56 
Total equity
 79,717.56 
 69,713.30 
Adjusted Net debt to equity ratio
 0.12 
 0.12 
49
Employee Bene˜ts
The Company contributes to the following post-employment defined benefit plans in India.
(i) De˜ned Contribution Plans:
The contributions to the Provident Fund and Family Pension Fund of certain employees are made to 
a Government administered Provident Fund and there are no further obligations beyond making such 

contribution. 
The Company recognised 
`
 583.27 lakhs for year ended 31 March 2018 (Previous year 
`
 523.52 lakhs) 
provident fund contributions in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
88
The contributions payable to these plans by the Company are at rates specified in the rules of the schemes.
(ii) De˜ned Bene˜t Plan:
Gratuity
The Company participates in the Employees Gratuity scheme, a funded defined benefit plan for qualifying 
employees. Gratuity is payable to all eligible employees on death or on separation / termination in terms 

of the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972.
The most recent actuarial valuation of plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
for gratuity were carried out as at 31
st
 March, 2018. The present value of the defined benefit obligations 
and the related current service cost and past service cost, were measured using the Projected Unit Credit 

Method.
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Gratuity 
Particulars
 31st March, 2018 
 31st March, 2017 
De˜ned bene˜t obligation
 1,589.11 
 1,402.78 
Fair value of Plan Assets at the end of the year
 (1,485.88)
 (1,226.69)
Net Obligation at the end of the year
 103.23 
 176.09 
B. Movement in net de˜ned bene˜t (asset) liability
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for net defined 
benefit (asset) liability and its components
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Gratuity 
 De˜ned bene˜t 
obligation 
 Fair value of plan 
assets 
 Net de˜ned bene˜t
(asset) liability 
 31st 
March, 
2018 
 31st 
March, 
2017 
 31st 
March, 
2018 
 31st 
March, 
2017 
 31st 
March, 
2018 
 31st 
March, 
2017 
 Opening balance 
 1,402.78 
 1,153.49 
 1,226.69 
 958.30 
 176.09 
 195.19 
 Included in pro˜t or loss 
-
-
 101.39 
 70.78 
 (101.39)
 (70.78)
 Current service cost 
 196.92 
 189.59 
-
-
 196.92 
 189.59 
 Past service cost 
 89.19 
-
-
-
 89.19 
 - 
 Interest cost (income) 
 108.01 
 79.02 
-
-
 108.01 
 79.02 
 1,796.90 
 1,422.10 
 1,328.08 
 1,029.08 
 468.82 
 393.02 
 Included in OCI 
 Remeasurement loss (gain): 

 Actuarial loss (gain) arising from: 
-
-
-
-
-
-
 Demographic assumptions 

 Financial assumptions 
-
-
(22.20)
47.61
22.20
(47.61)
 Experience adjustment 
 (141.02)
 44.94 
-
-
 (141.02)
 44.94 
 Return on plan assets excluding 
interest income 
-
-
-
-
 - 
 - 
 1,655.88 
 1,467.04 
 1,305.88 
 1,076.69 
 350.00 
 390.35 
 Other 
 Contributions paid by the 
employer 
 - 
 - 
 180.00 
 150.00 
 (180.00)
 (150.00)
 Bene˜ts paid 
 (66.78)
 (64.26)
 - 
 - 
 (66.78)
 (64.26)
 Closing balance 
 1,589.10 
 1,402.78 
 1,485.88 
 1,226.69 
 103.22 
 176.09 
 Represented by 
 Net de˜ned bene˜t asset 
(1,485.88)
 (1,226.69)
 Net de˜ned bene˜t liability 
 1,589.10 
 1,402.78 
 103.22 
 176.09 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
89
 C. Plan assets 
Plan assets comprise the following: 
(
`
 in lakhs)
 31st March, 2018 
 31st March, 2017 
 Fund managed by Insurance Company 
 1,485.88 
 1,226.69 
49
Employee Bene˜ts (Continued)
D. De˜ned bene˜t obligations

i. Actuarial assumptions
The following were the principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date (expressed as weighted 
averages).
31st March, 2018
 31st March, 2017 
Discount rate
7.70%p.a.
 6.85%p.a. 
Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets
7.70%p.a.
 6.85%p.a. 
Salary escalation rate
7.00%p.a.
 7.00%p.a. 
Employee Turnover
5.00%p.a.
 5.00%p.a. 
Mortality rate
 Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2006-08) Ult.
 
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2006-08) Ult. 
Assumptions regarding future mortality have been based on published statistics and mortality tables.
ii. Sensitivity analysis
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding 
other assumptions constant, would have affected the de˜ned bene˜t obligation as follows.
(
`
 in lakhs)
 31st March, 2018 
 31st March, 2017 
 Increase 
 Decrease 
 
Increase 
Decrease
Discount rate (1% movement)
 1,451.09 
 1,749.98 
 
1,273.98 
 1,554.45
Future salary growth (1% movement)
 1,749.49 
 1,449.04 
 
1,552.70 
 1,273.03
Rate of employee turnover (1% movement)
 1,592.41 
 1,585.62 
 
1,401.23 
 1,404.54
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact 

on de˜ned bene˜t obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end 

of the reporting period.
Expected future cash ˚ows
The expected future cash ˚ows in respect of gratuity as at 31
st
 March, 2018 were as follows.
Expected contribution

The expected contributions for de˜ned bene˜t plan for the next ˜nancial year will be in line with the 
contribution for the year ended March 31, 2018, i.e. 
`
 180 lakhs
Expected future bene˜t payments
 ( 
`
 in lakhs) 
31st March, 2019
 73.22 
31st March, 2020
 80.81 
31st March, 2021
 84.13 
31st March, 2022
 61.30 
Thereafter
 340.99 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
90
Compensated Absences:
The Compensated Absences is payable to all eligible employees for each day of accumulated leave on 
death or on resignation. Compensated Absences debited to Statement of Pro˜t and Loss during the 

year amounts to 
`
 230.36 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 
220.48 lakhs) and is included in Note 28 - ‚Employee 
bene˜ts expenses™. Accumulated non-current provision for leave encashment aggregates 
`
 536.65 lakhs 
(Previous year 
`
 512.47 lakhs) and current provision aggregates 
`
 314.98 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 282.13 
lakhs).
50
Hedge accounting
a.
Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on ˜nancial position

Cash ˚ow hedge - Forward exchange contracts
31st March, 2018
 
(
`
 in lakhs)
Type of 
hedge and 

risks
Nominal 
Value 
(USD in 
lakhs)
Carrying amount 
of hedging 
instrument 
(in INR)
Line item in 

the statement 

of ˜nancial 

position where 

the hedging 

instrument is 

included
Maturity 

date
Hedge 

ratio
Weighted 

Average 

strike 

price/ rate
Changes in 

fair value 

of the 

hedging 

instrument
Change in 

the value 

of hedged 

item used as 

the basis for 

recognising 

hedge 

effectiveness
Assets 
Liabilities
Cash ˚ow 

hedge

Forward 

exchange 

forward 

contracts
 56.22 
-
13.37
Liabilities

Other current 

financial liabilities
April 2018 
to June 
2018
1:1
 65.26 
 (13.37)
 13.37 
Cash ˚ow hedge - Cross Currency Interest Rate Swaps (CCIRS)
31st March, 2017
(
`
 in lakhs)
Type of 
hedge and 

risks
Nominal 
Value 
(USD in 
lakhs)
Carrying amount 
of hedging 
instrument 
(in INR)
Line item in 

the statement 

of ˜nancial 

position where 

the hedging 

instrument is 

included
Maturity 

date
Hedge 

ratio
Weighted 

Average 

strike 

price/ rate
Changes in 

fair value 

of the 

hedging 

instrument
Change in 

the value 

of hedged 

item used as 

the basis for 

recognising 

hedge 

effectiveness
Assets 
Liabilities
Cash ˚ow 

hedge

Forward 

exchange 

forward 

contracts
 21.00
-
 35.24
Liabilities

Other current 

financial liabilities
April 2017 - 
May 2017
1:1
 66.76
 (35.24)
 35.24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
91
b.
Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on ˜nancial performance
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2018
Change in the 
value of the 

hedging instrument 

recognised in OCI
Hedge 

ineffectiveness 

recognised in 

pro˜t or loss
Amount reclassi˜ed 

from cash ˚ow hedging 

reserve to pro˜t or loss
Line item affected in 

statement of pro˜t 

or loss because of the 

reclassi˜cation
Cash ˚ow hedge
 13.04 
 - 
 20.28 
Foreign exchange loss
31st March, 2017
Change in the 

value of the 

hedging instrument 

recognised in OCI
Hedge 

ineffectiveness 

recognised in 

pro˜t or loss
Amount reclassi˜ed 

from cash ˚ow hedging 

reserve to pro˜t or loss
Line item affected in 

statement of pro˜t 

or loss because of the 

reclassi˜cation
Cash ˚ow hedge
 7.10 
 - 
 13.18 
Foreign exchange loss 
50    Hedge accounting (Continued)
The following table provides a reconciliation by risk category of components of equity and analysis of OCI 

items, net of tax, resulting from cash ˚ow hedge accounting
Movements in cash ˚ow hedging reserve
(
`
 in lakhs)
Balance at 1 April 2016
 (13.18)
Add : Changes in the fair value of effective portion of outstanding cash ˚ow derivative 
(net of settlement)
 (7.10)
Less : Amounts reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss
 - 
Less: Deferred tax 
 - 
As at March 31, 2017
 (20.28)
Add : Changes in the fair value of effective portion of outstanding cash ˚ow derivative 

(net of settlement)
 19.94 
Less : Amounts reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss
 - 
Less: Deferred tax 
(6.90)
As at March 31, 2018
 (7.24)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
92
51
Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the 
Company by the weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 
by the weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average 

number of Equity shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential Equity shares into 

Equity shares. 
i. Pro˜t attributable to Equity holders of Company
(
`
 in lakhs)
 31st March, 2018
 31st March, 2017
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company:
Continuing operations
 11,710.55 
 11,845.40 
Pro˜t attributable to equity holders of the 
Company for basic earnings
 11,710.55 
 11,845.40 
Pro˜t attributable to equity holders of the 

Company adjusted for the effect of dilution
 11,710.55 
 11,845.40 
ii. Weighted average number of ordinary shares
(
`
 in lakhs)
 31st March, 2018 
 31st March, 2017 
Issued ordinary shares at 1st April 
 1,492.25 
 1,492.25 
Weighted average number of shares at 31st March 

for basic and Diluted EPS
 1,492.25 
 1,492.25 
Basic and Diluted earnings per share
(Amount in 
`
)
 31st March, 2018 
 31st March, 2017 
Basic earnings per share
 78.48 
 79.38 
Diluted earnings per share
 78.48 
 79.38 
52
Previous year ˜gures have been re-group / reclassi˜ed wherever necessary.
AS PER OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE ATTACHED
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants

Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
DIRECTORS OF NILKAMAL LIMITED

CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Sadashiv Shetty

Partner

Membership No : 048648
Sharad V. Parekh

Managing Director

DIN :  00035747
Hiten V. Parekh

Joint Managing Director

DIN :  00037550
Paresh B. Mehta

Chief Financial Of˜cer
 

Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave

Company Secretary

Membership No : 19469
Mumbai

May 11, 2018
Mumbai

May 11, 2018
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
93
Nilkamal Limited
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR™S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NILKAMAL LIMITED
Report on the Audit of Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements of 
Nilkamal Limited
 (hereinafter 
referred to as ﬁthe Holding Companyﬂ) and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together 
referred to as ﬁthe Groupﬂ) and its jointly controlled entities, which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet 

as at 31
st
 March 2018, the Consolidated Statement of Pro˜t and Loss, Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, for the year then ended, including a summary of signi˜cant 

accounting policies and other explanatory information (together hereinafter referred to as ﬁthe consolidated 

Ind AS ˜nancial statementsﬂ).
Management™s 
Responsibility for the Consolidated Ind AS Financial
 Statements
The Holding Company™s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of these consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial 

statements in terms of the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as ﬁthe Actﬂ) that 

give a true and fair view of the consolidated state of affairs, consolidated pro˜t and other comprehensive 

income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated cash ˚ows of the Group including its 

jointly controlled entities in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the 

Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) speci˜ed under Section 133 of the Act. The respective Board of Directors 

of the companies included in the Group and of its jointly controlled entities are responsible for maintenance 

of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of 

the Group and its jointly controlled entities and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 

the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are 

reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal ˜nancial 

controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 

relevant to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements that give a true 

and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used 

for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements by the Directors of the Holding 

Company, as aforesaid
.
In preparing the consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group and of its jointly controlled entities are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group 

and of its jointly controlled entities to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to 

going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate 

the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditor™s Responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements based on our audit. 
While conducting the audit, we have taken into account the provisions of the Act, the accounting and auditing 

standards and matters which are required to be included in the audit report under the provisions of the Act and 

the Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing speci˜ed under Section 143 (10) of the 
Act. Those Standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to 

obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements are free from material 

misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and the disclosures in the 
consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor™s judgment, including 

the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements, whether 

due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal ˜nancial control relevant to 

the Holding Company™s preparation of the consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements that give a true and fair view 

in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. An audit also includes evaluating 

the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made, 

as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements.
We are also responsible to conclude on the appropriateness of management™s use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or 

conditions that may cast signi˜cant doubt on the ability of Group 
and of its jointly controlled entities 
to continue 
as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in the 

auditor™s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements or, if such disclosures 

are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date 

of our auditor™s report. However, future events or conditions may cause Group 
and its jointly controlled entities
 
to cease to continue as a going concern.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in 
terms of their reports referred to in sub-paragraph 1 of the Other Matters paragraph below, is suf˜cient and 

appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements.
Consolidated Auditor™s Report
94
Nilkamal Limited
Opinion
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the 
consideration of reports of other auditors on separate ˜nancial statements and on the other ˜nancial information 

of the subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities, the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements give the 

information required by the Act in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the 

accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group, its jointly 

controlled entities as at 31
st
 March 2018, and their consolidated pro˜t (including other comprehensive income), 
consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated cash ˚ows for the year ended on that date.
Other Matter
1.
 
 
 
We did not audit the ˜nancial statements/˜nancial information of four subsidiaries, whose ˜nancial 
statements re˚ect total assets of Rs.5,462.88 lakhs as at 31
st
 March 2018, total revenues of Rs.
 
6,442.93
 
lakhs 
and net cash in˚ows amounting to Rs. 427.23 lakhs for the year ended on that date, as considered in the 
consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements. The consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements also include the 

Group™s share of net pro˜t of Rs. 289.98 lakhs for the year ended 31
st
 
March
 
2018, as considered in the 
consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements, in respect of one jointly controlled entity, whose ˜nancial statement/

˜nancial information have not been audited by us. These ˜nancial statements/˜nancial information have 

been audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the Management and our 

opinion on the consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures 

included in respect of these subsidiaries and jointly controlled entity and our report in terms of sub-section 

(3) of Section 143 of the Act insofar as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries and jointly controlled entity is 

based solely on the reports of the other auditors.
  
Certain of these subsidiaries are located outside India whose ˜nancial statements and other ˜nancial 
information have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in their 

respective countries and which have been audited by other auditors under generally accepted auditing 

standards applicable in their respective countries. The Company™s management has converted the ˜nancial 

statements of such subsidiaries located outside India from accounting principles generally accepted in their 

respective countries to accounting principles generally accepted in India. We have audited these conversion 

adjustments made by the Company™s management. Our opinion in so far as it relates to the balances and 

affairs of such subsidiaries located outside India is based on the report of other auditors and the conversion 

adjustments prepared by the management of the Company and audited by us.
 
Our opinion above on the consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements, and our report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements below, is not modi˜ed in respect of the above matter with respect to our reliance 

on the work done and the reports of the other auditors.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.
 
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other 
auditors on separate ˜nancial statements and the other ˜nancial information of subsidiaries and jointly 

controlled entities, as noted in the ‚other matter™ paragraph, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
a)
 
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge 
and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial 

statements.
b)
 
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of 

those books and the reports of the other auditors.
c)
 
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Pro˜t and Loss, Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement dealt with by this Report are in agreement 

with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated Ind 

AS ˜nancial statements.
d)
 
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements comply with the Indian Accounting 
Standards speci˜ed under Section 133 of the Act.
e)
 
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company as on 
31
st
 
March 2018 taken on record by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company and the reports of 
the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies and jointly controlled entities incorporated in India, 

none of the directors of the Group companies and jointly controlled entities incorporated in India is 

disquali˜ed as on 31
st
 March 2018 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the 
Act.
f)
 
With respect to the adequacy of the internal ˜nancial controls with reference to ˜nancial statements of 
the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies and jointly controlled entities in India and the operating 

effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in ﬁAnnexure Aﬂ
Consolidated Auditor™s Report
95
Nilkamal Limited
g)
 
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor™s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditor™s) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of the report of the other 

auditors on separate ˜nancial statements as also the other ˜nancial information of the subsidiaries and 

jointly controlled entities, as noted in the ‚Other matter™ paragraph:
i.
 
The consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on the 
consolidated ˜nancial position of the Group and jointly controlled entities- Refer note 35a to the 

Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements;
ii.
 
The Group and its jointly controlled entities did not have any material foreseeable losses on long-
term contracts including derivative contracts during the year ended 31
st
 March 2018;
iii.
 
There has been no delay in transferring amounts to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by 
the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies and jointly controlled entities incorporated in 

India during the year ended 31
st
 March 2018; and
iv.
 
The disclosures in the consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements regarding holdings as well as 
dealings in speci˜ed bank notes during the period from 8 November 2016 to 30 December 2016 

have not been made since they do not pertain to the ˜nancial year ended 31
st
 March 2018. However 
amounts as appearing in the audited consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements for the period ended 
 
31
st
 March 2017 have been disclosed.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Sadashiv Shetty
Mumbai
Partner
May 11, 2018
Membership No: 048648
Consolidated Auditor™s Report
96
Consolidated Auditor™s Report
Nilkamal Limited
Annexure A to Independent Auditor™s Report of even date on the consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial 
statement of Nilkamal Limited Œ 31
st
 March 2018
(Referred to in our report of even date)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (ﬁthe Actﬂ)
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated Ind AS ˜nancial statements of the Company as of and for 
the year ended 31
st
 March 2018, we have audited the internal ˜nancial controls over ˜nancial reporting of 
Nilkamal Limited (hereinafter referred to as ﬁthe Holding Companyﬂ) and its jointly controlled entities, which 

are Companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management™s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls

The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company, and its jointly controlled entities which are companies 
incorporated in India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal ˜nancial controls based on the 

internal control over ˜nancial reporting criteria established by the Group considering the essential components 

of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 

issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). These responsibilities include the design, 

implementation and maintenance of adequate internal ˜nancial controls that were operating effectively for 

ensuring the orderly and ef˜cient conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective company™s 

policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 

completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable ˜nancial information, as required 

under the Act.
Auditor™s Responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company™s internal ˜nancial controls over ˜nancial reporting 
based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 

Controls Over Financial Reporting (the ﬁGuidance Noteﬂ) issued by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing, 

issued by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit 

of internal ˜nancial controls, both issued by the ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we 

comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 

adequate internal ˜nancial controls over ˜nancial reporting was established and maintained and if such controls 

operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal ˜nancial 
controls system over ˜nancial reporting and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal ˜nancial controls 

over ˜nancial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal ˜nancial controls over ˜nancial 

reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 

effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor™s 

judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the ˜nancial statements, whether 

due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in 
terms of their reports referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, is suf˜cient and appropriate to provide 

a basis for our audit opinion on the Company™s internal ˜nancial controls system over ˜nancial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting

A Company™s internal ˜nancial control over ˜nancial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of ˜nancial reporting and the preparation of ˜nancial statements for external 

purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A Company™s internal ˜nancial control 

over ˜nancial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:
(1)
 
pertain to 
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly re˚ect the transactions 
and dispositions of the assets of the Company;
(2)
 
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of ˜nancial 
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures 

of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the 

Company; and
(3)
 
provide reasonable assurance 
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company™s assets that could have a material effect on the ˜nancial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting
Because of the inherent limitations of internal ˜nancial controls over ˜nancial reporting, including the possibility 
of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may 

occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal ˜nancial controls over ˜nancial 

reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal ˜nancial control over ˜nancial reporting 

may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 

procedures may deteriorate.
97
Consolidated Auditor™s Report
Nilkamal Limited
Opinion
In our opinion, the Holding Company and its jointly controlled entities, which are companies incorporated in 
India, have in all material respects, an adequate internal ˜nancial controls system over ˜nancial reporting and 

such internal ˜nancial controls over ˜nancial reporting were operating effectively as at 31 March 2018, based 

on the internal control over ˜nancial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential 

components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 

Reporting issued by the ICAI.
Other Matters

Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the 
internal ˜nancial controls over ˜nancial reporting in so far as it relates to 1 jointly controlled entity which is 

company incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding report of the auditor of such company incorporated 

in India. Our opinion is not quali˜ed in respect of this matter.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Sadashiv Shetty
Mumbai
Partner
May 11, 2018
Membership No: 048648
98
Nilkamal Limited
Consolidated Balance sheet
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31
st
 March, 2018
(
 
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
Note
As at
31st March 2017
As at
31st March 2016
I.
ASSETS
1
Non-current Assets
(a)
 Propety, Plant and Equipment
1
 34,311.96 
 27,016.58 
(b)
 Capital Work-in-Progress
 878.40 
 3,198.59 
(c)
 Other Intangible assets
1
 92.98 
 57.27 
(d)
 Investment in Joint ventures
2
 4,439.99 
 3,803.02 
(e)
 Financial Assets

 (i)  Investments
3
 38.32 
 38.33 
 (ii) Loans
4
 2,322.27 
 2,252.21 
 (iii) Other Financial Assets
5
 116.83 
 282.44 
2,477.42
2,572.98
(f)
 Other Non-Current Assets
6
 2,203.94 
 2,469.37 
 Total Non-Current Assets
 44,404.69 
 39,117.81 
2
Current assets

(a)
 Inventories
7
 37,938.05 
 33,604.69 
(b)
 Financial Assets

 (i)  Investments
8
 191.16 
 315.81 
 (ii) Trade Receivables
9
 34,009.36 
 30,095.79 
 (iii) Cash and cash equivalents
10
 1,745.40 
 1,329.01 
 (iv) Bank balance other than cash and cash equivalents
11
 295.67 
 81.51 
 (v) Loans
12
 736.72 
 565.26 
 (vi) Other Financial Assets
13
 31.80 
 64.17 
37,010.11
32,451.55
(c)
 Current Tax Assets (Net)
 14.97 
 17.90 
(d)
 Other Current Assets
14
 5,449.59 
 4,121.16 
 Total Current Assets
 80,412.72 
 70,195.30 
 Total Assets
 124,817.41 
 109,313.11 
II.
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1
Equity
 (a) Equity Share Capital
15
 1,492.25 
 1,492.25 
 (b) Other Equity
16
 83,365.36 
 72,700.32 
Total Equity attributable to Owners of the Company
 84,857.61 
 74,192.57 
2
Non-controlling Interests
 723.71 
 723.07 
3
Non-current liabilities

(a)
 Financial Liabilities

 (i) Borrowings
17
 -   
 9.04 
 (ii) Other Financial Liabilities
18
 4,996.49 
 4,628.22 
 4,996.49 
 4,637.26 
(b)
 Provisions
19
 720.24 
 730.93 
(c)
 Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net)
20
 1,295.84 
 650.86 
(d)
 Other Non-Current Liabilities
21
 348.37 
 280.06 
 Total Non-current Liabilities
 7,360.94 
 6,299.11 
4
Current Liabilities

(a)
 Financial Liabilities

 (i) Borrowings
22
 9,316.61 
 8,280.56 
 (ii) Trade Payables
23
 17,105.60 
 11,140.77 
 (iii) Other Financial Liabilities
24
 1,429.18 
 2,335.39 
27,851.39
21.756.72
(b)
 Other Current Liabilities
25
 2,574.86 
 3,795.76 
(c)
 Provisions
26
 1,070.63 
 2,101.16 
(d)
 Current Tax Liabilites (Net)
 378.27 
 444.72 
 Total Current Liabilities
 31,875.15 
 28,098.36 
 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITITES
 124,817.41 
 109,313.11 
Signi˜cant accounting policies
34
The notes referred to above form an integral part of the consolidated ˜nancial statements.
AS PER OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE ATTACHED.
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
For B S R & Co. LLP
NILKAMAL LIMITED
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
CIN: L25209DN1985PLC000162
Sadashiv Shetty
Sharad V. Parekh
Hiten V. Parekh
Partner
Managing Director
Joint Managing Director
Membership No: 048648
DIN: 00035747
DIN: 00037550
Paresh B. Mehta
Priti P. Dave
Chief Financial Of˜cer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 044670
Membership No. 19469
Mumbai
Mumbai
May 11, 2018
May 11, 2018
99
Nilkamal Limited
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
Note
Year ended
31
st
 March 2018
Year ended
31
st
 March 2017
I.
Revenue from operations
27
 216,083.78 
 216,216.13 
II.
Other Income
28
 368.62 
 331.19 
III.
Total Revenue (I+II)
 216,452.40 
 216,547.32 
IV.
Expenses:
Cost of Materials Consumed
 74,762.22 
 71,212.28 
Purchases of Stock in Trade
 45,336.79 
 48,089.37 
Changes in inventories of Finished Goods, Stock in Trade and 
Work-in-Progress
29
 (745.01)
 (2,905.14)
Excise Duty
 3,679.37 
 13,819.95 
Employee Bene˜ts Expense
30
 17,307.74 
 15,456.80 
Finance Costs
31
 1,253.88 
 1,167.24 
Depreciation and Amortization Expense
1
 5,048.46 
 5,054.40 
Other Expenses
32
 51,798.46 
 47,374.24 
Total Expenses
 198,441.91 
 199,269.14 
V.
Pro˜t Before share of Pro˜t of Equity accounted investee 

and Income Tax (III-IV) 
 18,010.49 
 17,278.18 
VI.
Shares of Pro˜t in Joint Ventures (net of Tax)
 670.74 
 519.43 
VII
Pro˜t before Tax (V+VI)
 18,681.23 
 17,797.61 
VIII
Income Tax Expense:
 Current tax
33
 5,731.67 
 5,640.47 
 Deferred tax Charge/(Credit)
33
 563.72 
 (277.42)
 Total Tax expenses
 6,295.39 
 5,363.05 
IX
Net Pro˜t After Tax (VII-VIII)
 12,385.84 
 12,434.56 
X
Other Comprehensive Income:

Items that will not be reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss

Remeasurements of de˜ned bene˜t liability/(asset)
 141.02 
 2.67 
Income Tax effect on above
 (48.80)
 (0.92)
Items that will be reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss
Effective portion of gain /(loss) on hedging instrument in a cash ˚ow hedge
 19.94 
 (7.10)
Income tax effect on Above
 (6.90)
 -   
Share of Other Comprehensive income in joint venture
4.13
7.98
Total Other Comprehensive Income for the year
109.39
2.63
XI.
Total Comprehensive Income (IX + X)
 12,495.23 
 12,437.19 
Pro˜t for the year attributable to:

 Equity Shareholder of the Company
 12,346.96
 12,253.32
 Non-Controlling Interests
 38.88
 181.24
Other Comprehensive income (net of tax) attributable to:

 Equity Shareholder of the Company
 109.39
 2.63
 Non-Controlling Interest
 -
 -
Total Comprehensive income attributable to:

 Equity Shareholder of the Company
 12,456.35
 12,255.95
 Non-Controlling Interest
 38.88
 181.24
XII.
Earnings per equity share of 
`
 10 each (Previous Year 
`
 10 each)
50
(1) Basic (in 
`
)
 82.74 
 82.11 
(2) Diluted (in 
`
 )
 82.74 
 82.11 
Signi˜cant accounting policies
34
The notes referred in above form an integral part of the Consolidated ˜nancial statements.
Consolidated Statement of pro˜t and loss
Consolidated Statement of pro˜t and loss for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2018
AS PER OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE ATTACHED.
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
For B S R & Co. LLP
NILKAMAL LIMITED
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
CIN: L25209DN1985PLC000162
Sadashiv Shetty
Sharad V. Parekh
Hiten V. Parekh
Partner
Managing Director
Joint Managing Director
Membership No: 048648
DIN: 00035747
DIN: 00037550
Paresh B. Mehta
Priti P. Dave
Chief Financial Of˜cer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 044670
Membership No. 19469
Mumbai
Mumbai
May 11, 2018
May 11, 2018
100
Nilkamal Limited
Consolidated cash ˚ow statement
( 
`
 In Lakhs)
Year ended on
31st March 2018
Year ended on
31st March 2017
A.
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net Pro˜t before tax
18,010.49 
 17,278.18 
Adjustments for :

Depreciation and Amortisation
 5,048.46 
 5,054.40 
(Pro˜t) / Loss on Fixed Assets sold / discarded (Net)
 (28.21)
 17.10 
Finance Costs
 1,253.88 
 1,167.24 
Non-cash exepenses adjustment for Gratuity
 92.22 
2.67
Interest Income
 (310.15)
 (277.04)
Provision for Rent Equalisation
 68.31 
 99.70 
Provision for doubtful debts and advances
 (29.28)
 156.50 
Bad Debts Written off
 333.05 
 72.52 
Unrealised Foreign Exchange Loss
 7.61 
 (36.65)
 6,435.89 
 6,256.44 
Operating Pro˜t before Working Capital 
changes
24,446.38 
 23,534.62 
Adjustments for :
(Increase) in Trade Receivables
(4,200.33)
 (3,404.48)
(Increase) in Other Receivables
(1,405.28)
 (680.19)
(Increase) in Inventories
(4,333.36)
 (3,168.65)
Increase / (Decrease) in Trade Payables
 5,940.21 
 (61.85)
Increase / (Decrease) in Other Payables & Provisions
(2,746.73)
 709.51 
(6,745.49)
 (6,605.66)
17,700.89
 16,928.96 
Direct Taxes Paid (Net of Refund)
(5,713.93)
 (5,776.00)
(5,713.93)
 (5,776.00)
Net Cash In˚ow  from Operating Activities (A)
11,986.96 
 11,152.96 
B.
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Acquisition of Property,Plant and Equipment
(10,188.13)
 (8,122.41)
Sale of Fixed Assets
 278.08 
 240.95 
Investments (made) / sold during the year [Net]
 (553.50)
 123.54 
Share of pro˜t from Joint Venture
 670.74 
 519.43 
Interest Received
 310.49 
 215.33 
Net Cash Out˚ow from Investing  Activities (B)
(9,482.32)
 (7,023.16)
C.
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES

(Repayment) of Long Term Borrowings
 (14.83)
 (2,702.81)
Proceeds from of Short Term Borrowings [Net]
 1,036.05 
 835.84 
Proceeds from Lease Borrowing [Net]
 -   
 14.83 
Finance costs
 (1,238.80)
 (1,178.65)
Dividend paid  (including tax on dividend)
 (1,811.55)
 (793.54)
Net Cash In˚ow/(Out˚ow) from Financing 
Activities (C)
(2,029.13)
 (3,824.33)
D.
Change In Foreign Currency Fluctuation Reserve 

Arising On Consolidation (D)
 (59.12)
 (271.57)
Net Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents 

(A+B+C+D )
 416.39 
 33.90 
Cash and Cash Equivalents as at the beginning of the 

year
 1,329.01 
 1,295.11 
Cash and Cash Equivalents as at the year end
 1,745.40 
 1,329.01 
Net Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents 
 416.39 
 33.90 
Consolidated cash ˚ow statement for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2018
101
Nilkamal Limited
Consolidated cash ˚ow statement
Consolidated cash ˚ow statement for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2018
Notes to the Cash Flow Statement
(
`
 In Lakhs)
1.
Components of cash and cash equivalents
Year ended on
31st March 2018
Year ended on
31st March 2017
(a)
 Cash on Hand
 151.11 
 105.90 
(b)
 Cheques on Hand / Remittance in Transit
 121.56 
 269.86 
(c)
 Balance in Current Accounts
 1,165.44 
 414.67 
(d)
 Bank Deposits with less than 3 months
 307.29 
 538.58 
 Cash and cash Equivalents
 1,745.40 
1,329.01
2
Debt reconciliation statement in accordance with Ind AS 7
Opening balances
Long-term borrowing including derivative 
liability
 14.83 
 2,702.81 
Short-term borrowing
 8,280.56 
 7,444.72 
 8,295.39 
 10,147.53 
Movements
Long-term borrowing
 (14.83)
 (2,687.98)
Short-term borrowing
 1,036.05 
 835.84 
 1,021.22 
 (1,852.14)
Closing balances
Long-term borrowing
 -   
 14.83 
Short-term borrowing
 9,316.61 
 8,280.56 
 9,316.61 
 8,295.39 
3
The Cash Flow statement has been prepared under the "Indirect Method" as set out in Accounting Standard 

(Ind As -7) Statement of  Cash Flows .
4
Previous year's ˜gures have been regrouped / recasted wherever necessary.
AS PER OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE ATTACHED.
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
For B S R & Co. LLP
NILKAMAL LIMITED
Chartered Accountants 

Firm's Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
CIN: L25209DN1985PLC000162
Sadashiv Shetty
Sharad V. Parekh
Hiten V. Parekh
Partner
Managing Director
Joint Managing Director
Membership No: 048648
DIN: 00035747
DIN: 00037550
Paresh B. Mehta
Priti P. Dave
Chief Financial Of˜cer
Company Secretary
Membership No. 44670
Membership No. 19469
Mumbai
Mumbai
May 11, 2018
May 11, 2018
102
Nilkamal Limited
Notes to the Consolidated cash ˚ow statement
Statement of Changes in Equity (SOCIE)
Statement of Changes in Consolidated Equity (SOCIE) for the year ended 31st March, 2018. 
 (
`
 in lakhs)
(a) Equity share capital
 As at March 31, 2018
 As at March 31, 2017
 No. of
 Shares
Amount
 No. of Shares
Amount
Balance at the beginning of the reporting period Balance
 1,49,22,525 
 1,492.25 
 1,49,22,525 
 1,492.25 
Changes in equity share capital during the year
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Balance at the end of the reporting period
 1,49,22,525 
 1,492.25 
 1,49,22,525 
 1,492.25 
(b) Other equity
 (
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
 Reserves & Surplus
 Items of Other comprehensive income
Grand Total
Retained 
Earnings 
Securities 
Premium 
Reserve 
 General 
Reserve 
 Share 
in Joint 
Venture 
 Foreign 
Currency 
Translation 
Reserves 
 Effective 
portion of 
hedges 
 Remeasurements 
 Joint 
Venture 
 Attributable 
to Equity 
Shareholders of 
the Company 
 Attributable 
to Non 
Controlling 
Interests 
 Total
Balance at 1st April, 2016
 28,291.58 
 6,448.96 
26,147.20 
 418.24 
 (16.77)
 (13.18)
 (16.75)
 61,259.28 
 720.90 
61,980.18 
 12,253.32 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 12,253.32
 181.24
 12,434.56 
 1.75 
 -   
 1.75 
 
 1.75 
 (7.10)
 7.98 
 0.88 
 0.88 
Other comprehensive income for the year
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (7.10)
 1.75 
 7.98 
 2.63
 
 2.63 
Total comprehensive income for the year
 12,253.32 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (7.10)
 1.75 
 7.98 
 12,255.95
 181.24   
12,437.19
Interim dividend declared and paid
 (596.90)
 (596.90)
 (130.26)
 (727.16)
DDT on interim dividend distributed
 (50.20)
 (50.20)
 (50.20)
Transfer to General reserve
 (5,000.00)
 5,000.00 
 -   
 -   
 (167.81)
 -   
 (167.81)
 (48.81)
 (216.62)
Balance at 31st March, 2017
 34,897.80 
 6,448.96 
31,147.20 
 418.24 
 (184.58)
 (20.28)
 (15.00)
 7.98 
 72,700.32 
 723.07 
73,423.39 
 12,346.96 
 12,346.96 
 38.88 
12,385.84 
 92.22 
 92.22 
 92.22 
 13.04 
 13.04 
 13.04 
Share of Other Comprehensive Income of Joint Venture
 4.13 
 4.13 
 4.13 
Ajustment 
 90.95 
 90.95 
 90.95 
 90.95 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 13.04 
 92.22 
 4.13 
 200.34 
 -   
 200.34 
Total comprehensive income for the year
 12,437.91 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 13.04 
 92.22 
 4.13 
 12,547.30 
 38.88 
12,586.18 
Interim dividend declared and paid
 (596.90)
 (596.90)
 (596.90)
Final Dividend declated and paid
 (1,044.58)
 (1,044.58)
 (33.14)
 (1,077.72)
Transfer to General reserve
 (3,884.84)
 3,884.84 
 -   
 -   
 (170.07)
 (170.07)
 (170.07)
 (70.71)
 (70.71)
 (5.10)
 (75.81)
Balance at 31st March, 2018
 41,639.32 
 6,448.96 
35,032.04 
 418.24 
 (255.29)
 (7.24)
 77.22 
 12.11 
 83,365.36 
 723.71 
 84,089.07 
AS PER OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE ATTACHED.
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
For B S R & Co. LLP
NILKAMAL LIMITED
Firm's Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Chartered Accountants
CIN: L25209DN1985PLC000162
Sadashiv Shetty
Sharad V. Parekh
Hiten V. Parekh
Paresh B. Mehta
Priti P. Dave
Partner
Managing Director
Joint Managing Director
Chief Financial Of˜cer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 048648
DIN: 00035747
DIN: 00037550
Membership No. 44670
Membership No. 19469
Mumbai
Mumbai
May 11, 2018
May 11, 2018
103
1.
 
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets
Intangible 
Assets
 Total
Freehold
 Land
Leasehold 
Land
Buildings
 Plant and 
Equipment
 Furniture 
and Fixtures
 Of˜ce 
Equipment
 Vehicle
 Leasehold 
Improvements
 Lease 
Equipment
 Total
Software
Gross Block
Balance as at 1st April, 2016
1,249.24
 167.27
 10,508.05
 14,081.57
 2,550.18
 1,181.67
 623.80
 1,844.30
 194.26
32,400.34
 252.36
32,652.70
Addition during the year
 -
 -
 96.92
 4,506.59
 191.99
 265.68
 108.67
 -
 -
 5,169.85
 22.14
 5,191.99
Adjustments
 -
 -
 0.52
 0.04
 (0.56)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Disposal
 -
 -
 12.34
 85.74
 52.28
 37.14
 187.73
 227.24
 132.71
 735.18
 -
 735.18
Exchange Translation
 (7.95)
 -
 (50.23)
 (27.85)
 (0.51)
 (1.13)
 (4.31)
 -
 -
 (91.98)
 (1.76)
 (93.74)
Balance as at 31st March, 2017
 1,241.29
 167.27
10,542.40
 18,475.09
 2,689.42
 1,408.52
 540.43
 1,617.06
 61.55
36,743.03
 272.74
 37,015.77
Balance as at 1st April, 2017
 1,241.29
 167.27
10,542.40
 18,475.09
 2,689.42
 1,408.52
 540.43
 1,617.06
 61.55
36,743.03
 272.74
 37,015.77
Addition during the year
 -
 -
 3,432.09
 8,070.54
 633.57
 342.13
 113.14
 -
 -
12,591.47
 70.62
 12,662.09
Adjustments
 -
 -
 -
 (1.25)
 0.15
 1.10
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Disposal
 -
 -
 27.64
 265.04
 36.92
 26.04
 134.28
 63.81
 -
 553.73
 -
 553.73
Exchange Translation
 (2.33)
 -
 (14.72)
 (16.33)
 (0.57)
 (0.75)
 (4.70)
 -
 -
 (39.39)
 (0.92)
 (40.31)
Balance as at 31st March, 2018
 1,238.96
 167.27
13,932.13
 26,263.01
 3,285.66
 1,724.96
 514.59
 1,553.25
 61.55
48,741.38
 342.44
 49,083.82
Depreciation 

Balance as at 1st April, 2016
 
-   
 2.50 
 490.14 
 2,862.38 
 607.25 
 445.47 
 153.66 
 625.22 
 52.95 
 5,239.57 
 136.40 
 5,375.97 
Depreciation for the year
 -   
 2.18 
 468.65 
 3,236.71 
 457.33 
 366.92 
 107.49 
 309.99 
 25.97 
 4,975.24 
 79.16 
 5,054.40 
Disposal /Adjustments
 -   
 -   
 0.28 
 45.85 
 47.71 
 24.12 
 70.15 
 226.12 
 62.90 
 477.13 
 -   
 477.13 
Exchange Translation
 -   
 -   
 (2.35)
 (7.48)
 (0.08)
 (0.49)
 (0.83)
 -   
 -   
 (11.23)
 (0.09)
 (11.32)
Balance as at 31st March, 2017
 -   
 4.68 
 956.16 
 6,045.76 
 1,016.79 
 787.78 
 190.17 
 709.09 
 16.02 
 9,726.45 
 215.47 
 9,941.92 
Balance as at 1st April, 2017
 -   
 4.68 
 956.16 
 6,045.76 
 1,016.79 
 787.78 
 190.17 
 709.09 
 16.02 
 9,726.45 
 215.47 
 9,941.92 
Depreciation for the year
 -   
 2.18 
 520.03 
 3,373.30 
 434.56 
 318.89 
 80.35 
 277.04 
 8.01 
 5,014.35 
 34.11 
 5,048.46 
Adjustment
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (1.04)
 0.14 
 0.91 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Disposal /Adjustments 
 -   
 -   
 1.54 
 103.67 
 33.21 
 23.95 
 77.67 
 63.80 
 -   
 303.84 
 
-   
 303.84 
Exchange Translation 
 -   
 -   
 (1.38)
 (4.61)
 (0.15)
 (0.41)
 (0.99)
 -   
 -   
 (7.54)
 (0.12)
 (7.66)
Balance as at 31st March, 2018
 -   
 6.86 
 1,473.27 
 9,309.73 
 1,418.13 
 1,083.22 
 191.86 
 922.33
 24.03 
14,429.42 
 249.46 
 14,678.88 
NET BOOK VALUE

As at 31st March, 2018
 1,238.96 
 160.41 
12,458.86 
 16,953.28 
 1,867.53 
 641.75 
 322.73 
 630.92 
 37.52 
34,311.96 
 92.98 
 34,404.94 
As at 31st March, 2017
 1,241.29 
 162.59 
 9,586.24 
 12,429.33 
 1,672.63 
 620.74 
 350.26 
 907.97 
 45.53 
27,016.58 
 57.27 
 27,073.85 
Notes:- a)  Leasehold Land acquisition value includes
 
`
 0.01 lakhs (Previous Year:
 
`
 0.01 lakhs) paid by way of subscription of shares for membership of co-operative housing society.
 
     b)
 
 
 
Pending completion 
of the relevant formalities of the Property, Plant and Equipment having Gross block value 
`
 255.87 lakhs (Previous Year: 
`
 263.07 lakhs) and Net block 
value 
`
 240.64 lakhs (Previous Year: 
`
 252.96 lakhs) which vested in the name of the Group pursuant to the scheme of amalgamation, such assets continue to be in the 
name 
of the erstwhile amalgamated companies.
 
    c)
 
 For capital commitment with regards to property plant and equipment refer note 35 (b).
 
    d)
 
 For Assets on hypothecation as security against borrowing refer note 38.
 
    e)
 
 For assets value given on operating lease refer note 41 (b).
104
2
Investments in Joint Ventures
(Valued at cost unless stated otherwise)

Trade Investment (Unquoted)

Investment in Equity instruments of Joint Ventures
(i)  
 
2,220,000 (Previous Year: 22,20,000) Equity Shares of of 
 
`
 10 each  of  Nilkamal Bito Storage Systems Pvt Ltd., fully 
paid up
 2,215.50 
 2,215.50 
(ii) 
 
105,000 (Previous Year: 1,05,000) Equity Shares of 
`
 10 each 
of Cambro Nilkamal Pvt Ltd., fully paid up
 200.50 
 200.50 
Add : Shares of Pro˜t in Joint Venture
 2,023.99 
 1,387.02 
Total
 4,439.99 
 3,803.02 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments Joint Ventures
 4,439.99 
 3,803.02 
3
Other Non-Current Investments (Refer Note No 46)
Unquoted

(a) Investment - Others
(i) 
 
200,000 (Previous Year: 200,000) Equity Shares of 
`
 10 each 
of Beta Wind Farm  Private Limited fully paid -up
 38.00 
 38.00 
(ii) 
 
98 (Previous Year: 98) Equity share of 
`
 10 each of Nilkamal 
Foundation
 -   
 0.01 
(b) Investment in Government Securities
National Savings Certi˜cates (Pledged with Government 
authorities)
 0.32 
 0.32 
Total
 38.32 
 38.33 
Aggregate amount of unquoted other investments
 38.32 
 38.33 
4
Non-Current Loans
Unsecured, Considered good

(
a) Employee Loans
 385.06 
 376.47 
(b) Security Deposit
 (i) With Other than related parties
 1,217.21 
 1,155.74 
 (ii) With related parties (refer note no 40)
 720.00 
 720.00 
Total
 2,322.27 
 2,252.21 
5
Others Non-Current  Financial Assets

Unsecured, Considered good

Bank Deposits with more than 12 months maturity
 116.83 
 282.44 
Total
 116.83 
 282.44 
6
Other Non-Current assets

Unsecured, Considered good

To parties other than related parties :

 (i) Capital Advances
 766.99 
 899.78 
 (ii) Deposit with Government Authorities
 1,043.17 
 1,036.60 
 (iii) Other Loans and Advances
 (a) Advance given
 -   
 66.57 
 (b) Prepaid Lease Rental
 393.78 
 463.07 
 (c) Staff Loans
 -   
 3.35 
Total
 2,203.94
 2,469.37
(
` 
in lakhs)
As at
31st March 2018
As at
31st March 2017
105
7
Inventories
 
(Valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value)
I. 
 
Raw Material (including Goods in Transit 
`
 1,361.27 lakhs 
Previous Year: 
`
 696.35 lakhs))
 9,056.61 
 5,637.23 
II. Work in Progress
 3,754.79 
 3,167.35 
III.Finished Goods
 9,291.79 
 9,492.87 
IV. 
 
Stock in Trade (including Goods in T
ransit
 
`
 582.86 lakhs 
(Previous Year: 
`
 514.77 lakhs))
 13,353.78 
 12,995.12 
V. Stores and Spares
 2,105.43 
 1,987.67 
VI. Packing Material
 375.65 
 324.45 
Total
 37,938.05 
 33,604.69 
During the year an amount of 
`
 122.40 (Previous Year 
`
 185.88 lakhs) was charged to the statement of Pro˜t 
and Loss on account of damage and slow moving Inventory.
For Inventories on hypothecation as security against borrowing refer note 38.
8
Current Investments
Investment in Mutual Funds

Non Traded (Unquoted)

Sri Lankan Government Treasury Investment
 191.16 
 103.89 
Sri Lankan Unit Trust - Namal High Yield Fund (Units Nil ( Previous 
Year : 3,072,528.40 units)
 
-   
 211.92 
Total
 191.16 
 315.81 
9
Trade Receivables
 (a) Secured, Considered good
 4,349.27 
 3,798.96 
 (b) Unsecured, Considered good
 29,660.09 
 26,296.83 
 (c) Doubtful
 667.50 
 691.78 
 Less: Provision For Loss allowance (Refer Note No. 46)
 (667.50)
 (691.78)
Total
 34,009.36 
 30,095.79 
Trade receivables (unsecured considered good) included 
`
 556.74 lakhs (Previous Year: 
`
 487.02 lakhs) due 
from joint venture companies. (Refer Note  40)
For trade receivables on hypothecation as security against borrowing refer note 38.
10
Cash and Cash Equivalents
(I) Cash and Cash Equivalents
 (a) Cash on Hand
 151.11 
 105.90 
 (b) Cheques on Hand 
 121.56 
 269.86 
 (c) Balance with banks in Current Accounts
 1,165.44 
 414.67 
 (d) Bank Deposits with less than 3 months maturity
 307.29 
 538.58 
Total
 1,745.40 
 1,329.01 
11
Bank Balances other than Cash and Cash Equivalents
(a) Bank Deposits with 3-12 months maturity
 258.13 
 51.33 
 (b) Earmarked Balance with Bank (Unclaimed Dividend)
 37.54 
 30.18 
Total
 295.67 
 81.51 
12
Current Loans

Unsecured, consider good

To parties other than related parties :

 a) Security Deposits
 736.72 
 565.26 
 b) Security Deposits Considered Doubtful
 52.05 
 52.05 
 Less: Provision for Doubtful Deposits
 (52.05)
 (52.05)
Total
 736.72 
 565.26 
13
Other Current Financial Assets

(a) Interest Receivable
 1.30 
 1.64 
(b) Due from Related Parties (Refer note no. 40)
 18.23 
 46.51 
(c ) Other Receivable
 12.27 
 16.02 
Total
 31.80 
 64.17 
(
` 
in lakhs)
As at
31st March 2018
As at
31st March 2017
106
14
Other Current Assets
 To parties other than related parties
 (a) Advances to Vendors
 2,098.50 
 1,473.35 
 (b) Advances for Expenses
 77.40 
 74.34 
 (c ) Balance with Excise / GST Department
 2,496.70 
 1,582.26 
 (d) Prepaid Expenses
 366.86 
 329.03 
 (e) Others
410.13
662.18
Total
 5,449.59 
 4,121.16 
15
Equity Share Capital
Authorised
220,00,000 (Previous Year: 220,00,000) Equity Shares of 
 
`
 10 each
 2,200.00 
 2,200.00 
30,00,000 
(Previous Year: 30,00,000) Preference Shares of 
`
 10 each)
 300.00 
 300.00 
 2,500.00 
 2,500.00 
Issued, Subscribed and Fully Paid up

149,22,525 Equity Shares (Previous Year: 149,22,525) Equity Shares 
of 
`
 10 each)
 1,492.25 
 1,492.25 
Total
 1,492.25 
 1,492.25 
16
Other Equity
a.   Surplus (Pro˜t and Loss)
At the Commencement  of the year
 34,897.80 
 28,291.58 
Add: Net Pro˜t for the year
 12,346.96 
 12,253.32 
Add: Adjustment*
 90.95 
 -   
Less: Appropriations

Final Equity Dividend ((31st March 2017 
`
 7, Previous Year Nil)
 1,044.58 
 -   
Interim Dividend
 596.90 
 596.90 
Tax on Final / Interim Dividend
 170.07 
 50.20 
Transfer to General Reserve
 3,884.84 
 5,000.00 
 41,639.32 
 34,897.80 
*Adjustment relates to opening reserve of Nilkamal Foundation.

b.   Securities Premium Reserve
At the Commencement and at the end of the year
 6,448.96 
 6,448.96 
c.   General Reserve
At the Commencement of the year
 31,147.20 
 26,147.20 
Add: Transferred from Surplus
 3,884.84 
 5,000.00 
 35,032.04 
 31,147.20 
d.   
 
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
 At the Commencement of the year
 (184.58)
 (16.77)
 Add/(Less): Exchange Difference during the year
 (70.71)
 (167.81)
 (255.29)
 (184.58)
e.   Share of Joint Venture
Share of Pro˜t in Joint Venture
 418.24 
 418.24 
 418.24 
 418.24 
f.  
 
Items of Other Comprehensive Income
i) Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
At the commencement of the year
 (20.28)
 (13.18)
Add :  Net gain / (loss) recognised on Cash Flow Hedge (refer note  39)
 13.04 
 (7.10)
 (7.24)
 (20.28)
ii)  Remeasurment of de˜ned bene˜t liability
At the commencement of the year
 (15.00)
 (16.75)
Add :  Remeasurment of de˜ned bene˜t liability (assets)
 92.22 
 1.75 
 77.22 
 (15.00)
iii) Other Comprehensive Income of Joint Venture
At the commencement of the year
 7.98 
 -   
Add :  Remeasurment of de˜ned bene˜t liability (assets)
 4.13 
 7.98 
 12.11 
 7.98 
Total Other Equity
 83,365.36 
 72,700.32 
(
` 
in lakhs)
As at
31st March 2018
As at
31st March 2017
107
Nature and purpose of reserves
1)
 
Securities premium r
eserve
 
Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act.
2) 
 
General reserve
 
General reserve forms part of the retained earnings and is permitted to be distributed to shareholders as 
part of dividend.
3) 
 
Cash ˚ow hedge reserve
 
For hedging Foreign Currency Exposure risk, the Group uses forward contact which is also designated as cash 
˚ow hedges. To the extent these hedges are effective; the change in fair value of the hedging instrument 
is recognized in the cash ˚ow hedging reserve. Amount recognized in the cash ˚ow hedging reserve is 

reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss when the hedged item affects pro˜t or loss.
4) 
 
Remeasurements of the net de˜ned bene˜t Plans
 
Remeasurements of the net de˜ned bene˜t Plans comprises actuarial gains and losses and return on plan 
assets (excluding interest income).
5)
 
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
 
The foreign currency translation reserve represents all exchange differences arising from translation of 
˜nancial statements of foreign operations.
(
` 
in lakhs)
As at 
31st March 2018
As at
31st March 2017
17
Borrowings - Non-current Liabilities
Secured (For Security and terms of repayment (Refer Note no.38)

Term Loan from banks

Finance Lease Obligations
 -   
 9.04 
Total
 -   
 9.04 
18
Other Non-Current Financial Liabilities

Security Deposit Received
 4,996.49 
 4,628.22 
Total
 4,996.49 
 4,628.22 
19
Non-Current Provisions

Provision For Employee Bene˜ts
(a) Gratuity (Refer Note 48)
 183.59 
 218.46 
(b) Compensated
 536.65 
 512.47 
Total
 720.24 
 730.93 
20
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) (refer note 33)

Major components of deferred tax assets and liabilities arising on account of timing differences are:

Deferred Tax Liabilities :

Depreciation
 1,878.26 
 1,443.35 
Allowances under Income Tax Act
316.69
 316.69 
 2,194.95 
 1,760.04 
Deferred Tax Assets:

Disallowances under Income Tax Act
 673.71 
 877.55 
Provision for Doubtful Debts
 225.40 
 231.63 
 899.11 
 1,109.18 
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net)
 1,295.84 
 650.86 
108
21
Other Non-Current Liabilities
Rent Equalisation
 348.37 
 280.06 
Total
 348.37 
 280.06 
22
Borrowings - Current Liabilities

Secured Loans (for securities and terms of prepayment 
:Refer Note 38)
 Working Capital Loan from Banks

 Rupee Loans
 9,316.61 
 8,280.56 
Total
 9,316.61 
 8,280.56 
23
Trade Payables

a) Due to micro, small and medium enterprise
-
-
b) Others
 17,105.60 
 11,140.77 
Total
 17,105.60 
 11,140.77 
24
Other Current Financial Liabilities

(a) Current maturities of long-term debt (Refer note 38)
 (i) Current Maturity of Finance Lease Obligations
 -   
 5.79 
(b) Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
 22.21 
 7.13 
(c) Derivative Liabilities (Refer note 49)
 13.37 
 35.24 
(d) Unclaimed Dividend 
 37.54 
 30.18 
(e) Capital Creditors
 382.24 
 361.27 
(f) Employee Bene˜ts
 973.82 
 1,895.78 
Total
 1,429.18 
 2,335.39 
25
Other Current Liabilities

(a) Advance received from customers
 1,815.28 
 1,609.89 
(b) Statutory Dues:
(i) Sales Tax / GST
 160.30 
 1,486.72 
(ii) Excise and Service Tax
 0.74 
 115.47 
(iii) Tax Deducted at Source
 326.82 
 349.10 
(iv) Employee Bene˜ts
 100.67 
 97.02 
(c) Other Payables
 171.05 
 137.56 
Total
 2,574.86 
 3,795.76 
26
Current Provisions
(a) 
 
Provision For Employee Bene˜ts (Refer Note no.48)
(i) Gratuity
 103.23 
 116.98 
(ii) Leave Salary
 314.98 
 282.14 
(b) Others Provisions
(i)  Provision For Excise Duty on Closing Stock
 -   
 1,037.19 
(ii) Provision For Product Warranties (Refer Note 36)
 552.42 
 564.85 
(iii) Provision for Others (Refer note 36)
 100.00 
 100.00 
Total
 1,070.63 
 2,101.16 
(
` 
in lakhs)
As at
31st March 2018
As at
31st March 2017
109
 Year ended 31st 
March, 2018 
 Year ended 31st 
March, 2017 
27
Revenue from Operations
Sale of Products (Including Excise Duty)

(i) Domestic 
 207,685.25 
 207,012.72 
(ii) Export [including Deemed Exports of 
`
 778.31 lakhs, (Previous 
Year: 
`
 2,894.22 lakhs)
 6,373.11 
 7,761.81 
 214,058.36 
 214,774.53 
Sale of Services
 766.60 
 683.75 
Other Operating Revenue
 -
 (a) Sale of Scrap
 360.35 
 275.68 
 (b) Technical and Management Fees
 573.30 
 481.15 
 (c) Others
 325.17 
 1.02 
Revenue from Operations
 216,083.78 
 216,216.13 
In accordance with Ind AS 18 on ﬁRevenueﬂ and Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, Sales for the 

previous year ended 31 March 2017 and for the period 1 April to 30 June 2017 were reported gross of Excise 

Duty and net of Value Added Tax (VAT)/ Sales Tax. Excise Duty was reported as a separate expense line item. 

Consequent to the introduction of Goods and Services Tax (GST) with effect from 1 July 2017, VAT/Sales Tax, 

Excise Duty etc. have been subsumed into GST and accordingly the same is not recognised as part of sales as 

per the requirements of Ind AS 18. 
28
Other Income
(a) Interest income
 310.15 
 277.04 
(b) Pro˜t on Fixed Assets Sold/Discarded (net)
 28.21 
 -   
(c) Others
 30.26 
 54.15 
Total
 368.62 
 331.19 
29
Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Traded Goods 
and Work-in-Progress.
Opening Stock

Work-in-Progress
 3,167.35 
 2,481.24 
Stock in Trade
 12,995.12 
 11,609.62 
Finished Goods
 9,492.87 
 8,597.60 
 25,655.34 
 22,688.46 
Closing Stock

Work-in-Progress
 3,754.78 
 3,167.35 
Stock in Trade
 13,353.78 
 12,995.12 
Finished Goods
 9,291.79 
 9,492.87 
 26,400.35 
 25,655.34 
Add / (Less) : Excise Duty on Increase/ Decrease in Finished Goods
 -   
 61.74 
Total
 (745.01)
 (2,905.14)
30
Employee Bene˜ts Expense

(a) Salary, Wages and Bonus (Net)
 15,439.82 
 13,739.97 
(b) Contribution to Provident and Other funds (Refer Note 48)
 644.35 
 598.67 
(c) Workmen and Staff Welfare Expenses
 1,223.57 
 1,118.16 
Total
 17,307.74 
 15,456.80 
31
Finance Costs

(a) Interest on Term Loans
 -   
 158.72 
(b) Interest Paid to Banks
 745.48 
 544.36 
(c) Other Interest
 459.19 
 396.29 
(d) Other Borrowing Costs
 49.21 
 67.87 
Total
 1,253.88 
 1,167.24 
110
32
Other Expenses
(a) Stores, Spare Parts Consumed
 2,059.44 
 1,634.59 
(b) Power and Fuel
 4,459.23 
 4,505.71 
(c) Repairs :

     (i) Building 
 329.53 
 211.58 
     (ii) Machinery
 272.64 
 307.38 
     (iii) Others
 1,115.11 
 991.77 
(d) Labour Charges
 9,664.56 
 8,470.76 
(e) Rent (Refer note 41)
 5,079.71 
 4,808.84 
(f) Rates and Taxes
 652.29 
 1,149.02 
(g) Insurance 
 249.31 
 258.17 
(h) Postage and Telephone Expenses
 673.09 
 694.17 
(i) Loss on Sale of Fixed Assets/ Discarded (Net)
 -   
 17.10 
(j) Packing Material Consumed
 2,151.23 
 1,948.13 
(k) Travelling Expenses
 1,831.89 
 1,747.78 
(l) Commission
 926.27 
 982.73 
(m) Advertisements and Sales Promotion Expense
 4,090.75 
 3,493.76 
(n) Computer Expenses
 781.41 
 632.32 
(o) Transportation and Forwarding Charges
 13,447.32 
 11,641.95 
(p) Security and Guards
 454.14 
 424.54 
(q) HouseKeeping Expenses
 317.26 
 401.68 
(r) Legal and Professional fees
 935.19 
 818.53 
(s) vehicle Expenses
 743.89 
 767.44 
(t) Printing and Stationery
 179.94 
 162.64 
(u) Board Meeting Fees
 21.00 
 17.71 
(v) Bad Debts written off
 333.05 
 72.52 
(w) Provision for Doubtful Debts and Advances
 (29.28)
 156.50 
(x) Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses
 3.02 
 183.87 
(y) Foreign Exchange Loss
 141.51 
 199.70 
(z) Bank Charges
 301.12 
 270.03 
(aa) Sundry Expenses
 613.85 
 403.32 
Total
 51,798.46 
 47,374.24 
33.
Tax expense
(a)
Amounts recognised in pro˜t and loss
(
` 
in lakhs)
 Year ended
31st March 2018
 Year ended
31st March 2017
Current income tax
 5,731.67 
 5,640.47 
Adjustment in respect of current / deferred tax of 
previous year
 18.44 
 0.32 
Deferred tax expense/(Credit)
 545.28 
 (277.74)
Tax expense for the year
 6,295.39 
 5,363.05 
Effective tax rate for the year
34.95%
31.04%
(
` 
in lakhs)
 Year ended 31st 
March, 2018 
 Year ended 31st 
March, 2017 
111
(b)
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
 Year ended 31 March 2018 
 Year ended 31 March 2017 
 Before 
tax
 Tax (expense) 
bene˜t
 Net of 
tax
 Before 
tax
 Tax (expense) 
bene˜t
 Net of 
tax
Items that will not be reclassi˜ed 
to pro˜t or loss
Remeasurements of de˜ned bene˜t 
liability (asset)
 141.02 
 (48.80)
 92.22 
 2.67 
 (0.92)
 1.75 
Items that will be reclassi˜ed to 

pro˜t or loss
Effective portion of Gain/(Loss) on 
hedgeing instrument in a cash ˚ow 

hedge
 19.94 
 (6.90)
 13.04 
 (7.10)
 -   
 (7.10)
Share of Comprehensive Income 

Jointly Controlled entity
 4.13 
-
 4.13 
 7.98 
-
 7.98 
 165.09 
 (55.70)
109.39 
 3.55 
 (0.92)
 2.63 
(C)
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Year ended 
31 March 2018 
 Year ended 
31 March 2017 
Pro˜t before tax (
`
 in lakhs)
 18,010.49 
 17,278.18 
Company™s domestic tax rate
34.61%
34.61%
Tax effect of:
Differences in tax rates in foreign jurisdictions
0.09%
(0.15%)
Tax impact of income not subject to tax
(0.31%)
(1.61%)
Tax effects of amounts which are not deductible for taxable income
0.59%
1.58%
Tax deduction Under Chapter VI 
(0.37%)
(3.02%)
Adjustment for current tax of prior period
0.11%
0.00%
Others
0.23%
(0.37%)
34.95%
31.04%
The applicable Indian corporate statutory rate for the year ended 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017 is 34.61% .
112
33 Tax expense (continued)
(d) Movement in deferred tax balances
(
` 
in lakhs)
31st March, 2018
Net balance
 
1st April, 2017 
 Recognised in 
pro˜t or loss 
Recognised
 
in OCI "
Charge in 
respect of 
earlier years
 Net 
 Deferred 
tax asset 
 Deferred tax 
liability 
Deferred tax asset / (liabilities) 
Property, plant and equipment
 (1,455.12)
 (419.83)
 (3.31)
 (1,878.26)
 -   
 (1,878.26)
Employee bene˜ts
 505.81 
 55.24 
 (48.80)
 (61.00)
 451.25 
 451.25 
 -   
Rent equalisation 
 95.06 
 -   
 95.06 
 95.06 
 -   
Provision for Doubtful Debts / Advances 
 231.62 
 (6.22)
 225.40 
 225.40 
 -   
Other provisions 
 (28.23)
 (174.38)
 (6.90)
 20.22 
 (189.29)
 127.40 
 (316.69)
Tax assets (Liabilities)
 (650.86)
 (545.18)
 (55.70)
 (44.09)
 (1,295.84)
 899.11 
 (2,194.95)
Set off tax

Net tax assets / (liabilities)
 (650.86)
 (545.18)
 (55.70)
 (44.09)
 (1,295.84)
 899.11 
 (2,194.95)
(e) Movement in deferred tax balances
31 March, 2017
Net balance
 
1st April, 2017 
 Recognized in 
pro˜t or loss 
Recognized
 
in OCI 
Charge in 
respect of 
earlier years
 Net 
 Deferred 
tax asset 
 Deferred tax 
liability 
Deferred tax asset / (liabilities) 

Property, plant and equipment 
 (1,511.09)
 52.08 
 3.89 
 (1,455.12)
 -   
 (1,455.12)
Employee bene˜ts 
 344.93 
 84.31 
 76.57 
 505.81 
 505.81 
 -   
Rent equilasation 
 60.56 
 34.50 
 95.06 
 95.06 
 -   
Provision for Doubtful Debts / Advances 
 175.29 
 56.33 
 231.62 
 231.62 
 -   
Other provisions 
 (102.81)
 50.52 
 (0.92)
 24.98 
 (28.23)
 288.46 
 (316.69)
Tax assets (Liabilities) 
 (1,033.12)
 277.74 
 (0.92)
 105.44 
 (650.86)
 1,120.95 
 (1,771.81)
Set off tax 

Net tax assets / (liabilities)
 (1,033.12)
 277.74 
 (0.92)
 105.44 
 (650.86)
 1,120.95 
 (1,771.81)
1. 
 
The group offsets tax assets and liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set of
f current tax assets and current tax liabilities and the deferred 
tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority.
2. 
 
Signi˜cant management judgment is required in determining provision for income tax, deferred income tax assets and liabilities 
and recoverability of deferred 
income tax assets. The recoverability of deferred income tax assets is based on estimates of taxable income in which the relevant entity operates and the period 
over which deferred income tax assets will be recovered.
3. 
 
As on 31st March 2018, the tax liability with respect to the dividends proposed is 
` 
256.93 lakhs (Previous Year: 
` 
119.85 lakhs) 
113
34
 
Signi˜cant accounting policies
a)
 
Basis of preparation of consolidated Fina
ncial Statements:
  
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the ˜nancial statements of Nilkamal Limited (ﬁthe holding 
Companyﬂ) and its subsidiaries (ﬁthe holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred as the Groupﬂ) 
and the group™s interest in joint ventures. Company have been prepared in accordance with the Indian 

Accounting Standards (Ind AS) to comply with the section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 (ﬁthe Actﬂ), and read 

with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015 and Companies (Indian Accounting 

Standards) Rules 2016. The ˜nancial statements were authorised for issue by the Holding Company™s Board 

of Directors on 11th May 2018.
  
All the assets and liabilities have been classi˜ed as current or non current as per the Group™s normal operating 
cycle and other criteria set out in Schedule III to the Act. Based on the nature of products and the time 

between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realization in cash and cash equivalent, the Group 

has ascertained the operating cycle to be 12 months.
b)
 
Principles of Consolidation:
  
The consolidated ˜nancial statements comprise the ˜nancial statements of Nilkamal Limited (ﬁthe Holding 
Companyﬂ), its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred as ﬁthe Groupﬂ) and 

the group™s interest in joint ventures.
 
Subsidiaries
  
Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities) that are controlled by the Company. Control 
exists when the Company is exposed to, or has the ability to affect those returns through power over the 

entity. In assessing control, potential voting rights are considered only if the rights are substantive. The 

˜nancial statements of subsidiaries are included in these consolidated ˜nancial statements from the date 

that control commences until the date that control ceases. The ˜nancial statements of the Company and its 

subsidiaries and jointly controlled entity have been consolidated using uniform accounting policies for like 

transactions and other events in similar circumstances as mentioned in those policies.
  
Upon loss of control, the Group derecognizes the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, any non-controlling 
interests and the other components of equity related to the subsidiary. Any surplus or de˜cit arising on the 

loss of control is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Pro˜t and Loss. If the Company retains any 

interest in the previous subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value at the date that control is 

lost. Subsequently, it is accounted for as an equity accounted investee depending on the level of in˚uence 

retained.
 
Joint ventures (equity accounted investees)
  
Joint arrangements are those arrangements over which the Company has joint control, established by 
contractual agreement and requiring unanimous consent for strategic ˜nancial and operating decisions. 

Investments in associates and jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method (equity 

accounted investees) and are initially recognized at cost. The carrying value of the Company™s investment 

includes goodwill identi˜ed on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The Company does not 

consolidate entities where the non-controlling interest (ﬁNCIﬂ) holders have certain signi˜cant participating 

rights that provide for effective involvement in signi˜cant decisions in the ordinary course of business of 

such entities. Investments in such entities are accounted by the equity method of accounting. When the 

Company™s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of that 

interest (including any long-term investments) is reduced to zero and the recognition of further losses is 

discontinued except to the extent that the Company has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of 

the investee.
 
Transactions eliminated on consolidation:
 Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealized 
income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in full while preparing these 

consolidated ˜nancial statements. Unrealized gains or losses arising from transactions with equity accounted 

investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Company™s interest in the investee.
 
The ˜nancial statements of the subsidiaries and the jointly controlled entities used for the purpose of 
consolidation are drawn upto the same reporting date as that of the Holding Company, i.e. 31 March 2018.
 
The Subsidiary Companies and Joint ventures considered in the consolidated ˜nancial statements are:
Name of the Company
Country of 
Incorporation
% of Ownership held 
as at 31
st
 March, 2018
% of Ownership held 
as at 31
st
 March, 2017
Subsidiaries:
Nilkamal Eswaran Plastics Private Limited
Sri Lanka
76%
76%
Nilkamal Eswaran Marketing Private Limited
Sri Lanka
76%
76%
Nilkamal Crates and Bins FZE
Ajman, UAE,
100%
100%
Nilkamal Foundation *
India
 98%
 98%
Joint Ventures:
Nilkamal Bito Storage System Private Limited
India
50%
50%
Cambro Nilkamal Private Limited
India
50%
50%
114
 
ﬁNon-Controlling interestﬂ represents the amount of equity attributable to Non-Controlling shareholders at 
the date on which investment in the subsidiary is made and its share of movements in the equity since the 
date the parent subsidiary relationship comes into existence.
 
* These companies are private companies limited by shares formed under section 8 of the Companies Act, 
2013. No dividend can be proposed and paid to the shareholder by these companies. In the event of winding 

up or dissolution of these companies, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities, any property 

whatsoever shall be given or transferred to some other institution(s) having object similar to the objects of 

these companies, to be determined by the members of these companies at or before the time of dissolution 

or in default thereof by the High Court. The carrying amount of the assets and liabilities included within the 

consolidated ˜nancial statements to which these restrictions apply is 
`
 295.55 lakhs, and 
` 
100.06 lakhs.
 
Functional and presentation curr
ency
 
These ˜nancial statements are presented in Indian rupees in lakhs, which is the Holding Company™s functional 
currency. All amounts have been rounded off to two decimal places to the nearest lakh, unless otherwise 

indicated.
 
The consolidated ˜nancial statements have been prepared using uniform accounting policies for like 
transactions and other events in similar circumstances.
 
Historical cost convention
 
The Consolidated ˜nancial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the following:

fair value;

c)
 
Use of Estimates and Judgements:
 
The preparation of consolidated ˜nancial statements in accordance with Ind AS requires use of estimates 
and assumptions for some items, which might have an effect on their recognition and measurement in the 

consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of pro˜t and loss. The actual amounts realised may 

differ from these estimates.
 
Estimates and assumptions are required in particular for:

Determination of the estimated useful lives of Property, plant and equipment
   
Useful lives of Property plant and equipment are based on the life prescribed in Schedule II of the 
Companies Act, 2013. In cases, where the useful lives are different from that prescribed in Schedule II 

for plant and machinery and dies and moulds, they are based on technical advice, taking into account 

the nature of the asset, the estimated usage of the asset, the operating conditions of the asset, past 

history of replacement, anticipated technological changes, manufacturers™ warranties and maintenance 

support.

Recognition and measurement of de˜ned bene˜t obligations
   
The obligation arising from de˜ned bene˜t plan is determined on the basis of actuarial assumptions. Key 
actuarial assumptions include discount rate, trends in salary escalation, actuarial rates and life expectancy. 

The discount rate is determined by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on 

government bonds. The period to maturity of the underlying bonds correspond to the probable maturity 

of the post-employment bene˜t obligations.

Recognition of deferred tax assets
   
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary differences 
between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and unutilized business 

loss and depreciation carry-forwards and tax credits. Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent 

that it is probable that future taxable income will be available against which the deductible temporary 

differences, unused tax losses, depreciation carry-forwards and unused tax credits could be utilized.

Recognition and measurement of other provisions
   
The recognition and measurement of other provisions are based on the assessment of the probability 
of an out˚ow of resources, and on past experience and circumstances known at the balance sheet date. 

The actual out˚ow of resources at a future date may therefore vary from the amount included in other 

provisions.

Discounting of long-term ˜nancial assets / liabilities
   
All ˜nancial assets / liabilities are required to be measured at fair value on initial recognition. In case of 
˜nancial liabilities/assets which are required to subsequently be measured at amortised cost, interest is 

accrued using the effective interest method.
115

Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease
   
At inception of an arrangement, the Group determines whether the arrangement is or contains a lease
.
   
At inception or on reassessment of an arrangement that contains a lease, the Group separates payments 
and other consideration required by the arrangement into those for the lease and those for other 
elements on the basis of their relative fair values. If the Group concludes for a ˜nance lease that it is 

impracticable to separate the payments reliably, then an asset and a liability are recognised at an amount 

equal to the fair value of the underlying asset; subsequently, the liability is reduced as payments are 

made and an imputed ˜nance cost on the liability is recognised using the Group™s incremental borrowing 

rate. And in case of operating lease, treat all payments under the arrangement as lease payments.


   
Operating segments 
are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting. The Group 
prepares its segment information in conformity with the accounting policies adopted for preparing and 

presenting the consolidated ˜nancial statements of the Group as a whole.

Fair value of ˜nancial instruments
   
Derivatives are carried at fair value. Derivatives includes foreign currency forward contracts and interest 
rate swaps. Fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are determined using the fair value reports 

provided by respective merchant bankers. Fair value of interest rate swaps are determined with respect 

to current market rate of interest.
 
Measurement of fair values
 
The Group™s accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement of fair values for ˜nancial 
instruments.
 
The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values. The 
management regularly reviews signi˜cant unobservable inputs and valuation adjustments. If third party 

information, such as broker quotes or pricing services, is used to measure fair values, then the management 

assesses the evidence obtained from the third parties to support the conclusion that such valuations meet 

the requirements of Ind AS, including the level in the fair value hierarchy in which such valuations should be 

classi˜ed.
 
When measuring the fair value of a ˜nancial asset or a ˜nancial liability, the Group uses observable market 
data as far as possible. Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the 

inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows.
  
Level 1: 
quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
  
Level 2: 
inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, 
either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
  
Level 3: 
inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable 
inputs).


value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the 

fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is signi˜cant to the entire measurement.

period during which the change has occurred.
d)
 
Standards issued but not yet ef
fective
 
The Company recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting 
period during which the change has occurred.
 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (ﬁMCAﬂ), on March 28, 2018, through Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Amendment Rules, 2018 has noti˜ed the new standard for revenue recognition and amended certain existing 

Ind AS which are effective for annual periods beginning on or after April 1st, 2018.
 
Ind AS 115- Revenue from Contract with Customers:

of the new standard is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or 

services to customers in an amount that re˚ects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled 

in exchange for those goods or services. Further the new standard requires enhanced disclosures about the 

nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash ˚ows arising from the entity™s contracts with 

customers.
 
The Group is evaluating the requirements of the Ind As 115 and the effect on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements is being evaluated.
116
 
Ind AS 21- The effect of changes in For
eign exchange rates
 
The amendment clari˜es on the accounting of transactions that include the receipt or payment of advance 
consideration in a foreign currency. The appendix explains that the date of the transaction, for the purpose 
of determining the exchange rate, is the date of initial recognition of the non-monetary asset or non-

monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration.
 
The amendment will come into force from 1st April, 2018. The Group does not expect the effect of this on 
the ˜nancial statements to be material based on preliminary evaluation.ﬂ
e)
 
Property, plant and equipment
 
i.
 
Recognition and measurement
   
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any 
accumulated impairment losses.
  
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment comprises:
  
a)
 
 
Its purchase 
price, including import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting trade 
discounts and rebates.
  
b)
 
 
Any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to 
be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
  
c)
 
 
The initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing 
the item and restoring the site on 
which it is located, the obligation for which an entity incurs either when the item is acquired or as a 

consequence of having used the item during a particular period for purposes other than to produce 

inventories during that period.
   
Income and expenses related to the incidental operations, not necessary to bring the item to the location 
and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management, are 

recognised in consolidated pro˜t or loss.
   
Items such as spare parts, stand-by equipments and servicing that meets the de˜nition of property, plant 
and equipment are capitalised at cost and depreciated over the useful life
   
If signi˜cant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have dif
ferent useful lives, then they are 
accounted and depreciated for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
  
Any gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in pro˜t or loss.
 
Subsequent expenditure
 
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if it is probable that the future economic bene˜ts associated with 
the expenditure will ˚ow to the Group.
f)
 
Depreciation


lives of assets as prescribed under Part C of Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 except for plant and 

machinery and Dies and moulds which is based on technical evaluation. Management believes that these 

useful lives best represent the period over which management expects to use these assets. Hence the 

useful life for plant and machinery of 10 years and for Dies and Moulds of 6 years for continuous running 

is different from the useful life as prescribed under Part C of Schedule II of the Companies Act 2013;

prospectively, if appropriate


of such addition or upto the date of such sale/discardment, as the case may be;

acquisition;
 
Individual assets except assets given on lease acquired for less than 
`
15,000/- are depreciated entirely in 
the year of acquisition.
g)
 
Intangible Fixed Assets
 
Intangible Fixed assets, which are acquired by the Group and have ˜nite useful lives are measured at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
 
All other expenditure, including expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands, is recognised in 
pro˜t or loss as incurred.
117
h)
 
Amortisation
 
Software (Intangible 
assets) are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis but not 
exceeding the period of 36 months.
 
Useful life of Intangible assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted prospectively, if 
appropriate
i)
 
Financial Instruments
 
A ˜nancial instrument is any 
contract that gives rise to a ˜nancial asset of one entity and a ˜nancial liability 
or equity instrument of another entity. Financial instruments also include derivative contracts such as foreign 
currency foreign exchange forward contracts and, interest rate swaps and currency options; and embedded 

derivatives in the host contract.
 
Financial instruments also covers contracts to buy or sell a non-˜nancial item that can be settled net in cash 
or another ˜nancial instrument, or by exchanging ˜nancial instruments, as if the contracts were ˜nancial 

instruments, with the exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose 

of the receipt or delivery of a non-˜nancial item in accordance with the entity™s expected purchase, sale or 

usage requirements.
 
Derivatives are currently recognized at fair value on the date on which the derivative contract is entered into 
and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period.
 
Cash Flow Hedges
 
The Group uses derivative ˜nancial instrument such as forward contracts and cross currency interest rate 
swaps to hedge its foreign currency risks and interest rate risks. Derivative ˜nancial instruments are initially 

recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 

re measured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as ˜nancial assets when the fair value is positive and as 

˜nancial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
 
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken directly to the Statement 
of Pro˜t and Loss, except for the effective portion of cash ˚ow hedge, which is recognised in Other 

Comprehensive Income and accumulated in Cash Flow Hedge Reserve included in the Reserves and Surplus 

while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Statement of Pro˜t and Loss.
 
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classi˜ed as:

liability.

particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability.
 
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship 
to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for 

undertaking the hedge. The documentation includes identi˜cation of the hedging instrument, the hedged 

item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the effectiveness of 

changes in the hedging instrument™s fair value in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item™s 

fair value or cash ˚ows attributable to the hedged risk. Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in 

achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash ˚ows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine 

that they actually have been highly effective throughout the ˜nancial reporting periods for which they were 

designated.
 
Hedge accounting is discontinued from the last testing date when the hedging instrument expires or is 
sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer quali˜es for hedge accounting. Cumulative gain or loss on such 

hedging instrument recognised in Cash Flow Hedge Reserve is retained there until the forecasted transaction 

occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in 

Cash Flow Hedge Reserve is transferred to consolidated statement of Pro˜t and Loss for the year.

 
Classi˜cation
 
The Group shall classify ˜nancial assets as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through other 
comprehensive income or fair value through pro˜t or loss on the basis of its business model for managing 

the ˜nancial assets and the contractual cash ˚ow characteristics of the ˜nancial asset.
118
 
Initial recognition and measur
ement
 
All ˜nancial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the case of ˜nancial assets not recorded at 
fair value through pro˜t or loss, transaction costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the ˜nancial 
asset. Purchases or sales of ˜nancial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established by 

regulation or convention in the market place (regular way trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., the 

date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
 
Debt instruments at amortised cost
 
A ‚debt instrument™ is measured at the amortised cost if both the following conditions are met:
 
a)
 
 
The asset 
is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual cash 
˚ows, and
 
b)
 
 
Contractual terms of the asset give rise on speci˜ed dates to cash ˚ows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding. After initial measurement, such 

˜nancial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) 

method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and 

fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in ˜nance income in 

the pro˜t or loss. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the pro˜t or loss. This category 

generally applies to trade and other receivables. For more information on receivables, refer to Note 46.
 
Equity investments
 
All equity investments in scope of Ind-AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity instruments which are held 
for trading are classi˜ed as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Group decides to classify the 

same either as at FVOCI or FVTPL. The Group makes such election on an instrument-by-instrument basis. The 

classi˜cation is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.
 
If the Group decides to classify an equity instrument as FVOCI, then all fair value changes on the instrument, 
excluding dividends, are recognized in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to pro˜t and 

loss, even on sale of investment. However, the Group may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity.
 
Equity instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all changes recognized 
in the pro˜t and loss.
 
Derecognition
 
A ˜nancial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a ˜nancial asset or part of a Group of similar ˜nancial assets) 
is primarily de recognised (i.e. removed from the Group™s balance sheet) when:


to pay the received cash ˚ows in full without material delay to a third party under a ‚pass-through™ 

arrangement; and either (a) the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, 

or (b) the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, 

but has transferred control of the asset
 
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash ˚ows from an asset or has entered into a pass-
through arrangement, it evaluates if and to what extent it has retained the risks and rewards of ownership. 

When it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, nor 

transferred control of the asset, the Group continues to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of 

the Group™s continuing involvement. In that case, the Group also recognises an associated liability. The 

transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that re˚ects the rights and obligations 

that the Group has retained.
 
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the 
lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the 

Group could be required to repay.
 
Impairment of ˜nancial assets
 
In accordance with Ind-AS 109, the Group applies expected credit loss (ECL) model for measurement and 
recognition of impairment loss on the following ˜nancial assets and credit risk exposure:
 
a)
 
 
Financial assets that are debt instruments, and are measured at amortised cost e.g., loans, debt securities, 
deposits, and bank balance.
 
b)
 
 
Trade receivables - The application of simpli˜ed approach does not require the Group to track changes 
in credit risk. Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting 

date, right from its initial recognition. Trade receivables are tested for impairment on a speci˜c basis 

after considering the sanctioned credit limits, security like letters of credit, security deposit collected etc. 

and expectations about future cash ˚ows.
119

 
Classi˜cation
 
The Group classi˜es all ˜nancial liabilities as subsequently measured at amortised cost, except for ˜nancial 
liabilities at fair value through pro˜t or loss. Such liabilities, including derivatives that are liabilities, shall be 
subsequently measured at fair value.
 
Initial recognition and measur
ement
 
Financial liabilities are classi˜ed, 
at initial recognition, as ˜nancial liabilities at fair value through pro˜t or 
loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective 

hedge, as appropriate.
 
All ˜nancial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and 
payables, net of directly attributable and incremental transaction cost.
 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs 
that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as ˜nance costs in the statement of 

pro˜t and loss.
 
The Group™s ˜nancial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings including bank 
overdrafts and derivative ˜nancial instruments.
 
Derecognition
 
A ˜nancial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. 
When an existing ˜nancial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different 

terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modi˜ed, such an exchange or modi˜cation is 

treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in 

the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the consolidated statement of pro˜t or loss.
 
Offsetting of ˜nancial instruments
 
Financial assets and ˜nancial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated balance 
sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention 

to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
j)
 
Valuation of Inventories:
 
Inventories of 
Raw Materials, Packing Materials, Stores and Spares, Work-in Progress, Traded goods and 
Finished goods are valued ‚at cost and net realisable value™ whichever is lower. Cost comprises all cost of 

purchase, appropriate direct production overheads and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to 

their present location and condition. The excise duty in respect of the closing inventory of ˜nished goods 

is included as part of the ˜nished goods. Cost formulae used is ‚Weighted Average Cost™. Due allowance is 

estimated and made for defective and obsolete items, wherever necessary, based on the past experience 

of the Group. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the 

estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Raw materials and other 

supplies held for use in the production of inventories are not written down below cost except in case where 

material prices have declined and it is estimated that the cost of the ˜nished product will exceed its net 

realisable value.
k)
 
Employee Bene˜ts:
 
All employee bene˜ts payable within twelve months of rendering the service are recognised in the period in 
which the employee renders the related service.
 
Contribution to De˜ned Contribution Plans such as Provident Fund, Employees™ State Insurance Corporation, 
etc., are charged to the consolidated Statement of Pro˜t and Loss as incurred.

actuarial valuation by an independent actuary at the end of each year, using the Projected Unit Credit 

Method.. In the case of gratuity, which is funded, the fair value of the plan assets is reduced from the gross 

obligation under the de˜ned bene˜t plans, to recognise the obligation on net basis.
 
Remeasurement of net de˜ned bene˜t liability, which comprises actuarial gains and losses and the return on 
plan assets (excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any excluding interest), are recognized 

immediately in other comprehensive income.
 
Other Long Term Employee Bene˜ts
 
Compensated Absences
 
Accumulated compensated absences, which are expected to be availed or encashed within 12 months from 
the end of the year end are treated as short term employee bene˜ts. The obligation towards the same is 

measured at the expected cost of accumulating compensated absences as the additional amount expected 
120
to be paid as a result of the unused entitlement as at the year end. Accumulated compensated absences, 
which are expected to be availed or encashed beyond 12 months from the end of the year end are treated as 

other long term employee bene˜ts. The Group™s liability is actuarially determined (using the Projected Unit 

Credit method) at the end of each year. Actuarial losses/ gains are recognised in the consolidated Statement 

of Pro˜t and Loss in the year in which they arise.
l)
 
Foreign Exchange Transactions:
 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Group at the 
exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency 
at the exchange rate at the reporting date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at fair 

value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate when the fair 

value was determined. Foreign currency differences are generally recognised in pro˜t or loss. Non-monetary 

items that are measured based on historical cost in a foreign currency are not translated using the exchange 

rate at the date of the transactions.
 
Translation of ˜nancial statements of foreign entities
 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into 
`
 (Indian Rupees) at 
the exchange rate prevailing at the reporting date and their statements of pro˜t and loss are translated at 

exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. For practical reasons, the group uses an average 

rate to translate income and expense items, if the average rate approximates the exchange rates at the 

dates of the transactions. The exchange differences arising on translation for consolidation are recognised 

in Foreign Currency Translation Reserve. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of Foreign 

Currency Translation Reserve relating to that particular foreign operation is reclassi˜ed to Consolidated 

Statement of Pro˜t and Loss.
m)
 
Borrowing Costs:
 
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset that necessarily 
takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of that 

asset till the date it is ready for its intended use or sale. Other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense 

in the period in which they are incurred.
n)
 
Recognition of Income and Expenditure:
i)
 
Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, 
net of returns and allowances, trade discounts and volume rebates. Revenue is recognised when 

signi˜cant risks and rewards of ownership in the goods are transferred to the buyer. Revenues are 

recognized when collect ability of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured.
ii)
 
Income from Services is recognised on completion of service.
iii)
 
Revenue/Income and Cost/Expenditure are accounted on accrual as they are earned or incurred, except 
in case of signi˜cant uncertainties.
iv)
 
Bene˜t on account of entitlement to import duty-free raw materials under advance license is estimated 
and accounted in the year of export as an adjustment to raw material consumption, provided there is a 

reasonable degree of certainty with regard to its ultimate realisation.
v)
 
Liability for excise duty payable on stock in bonded warehouse at the year-end is provided for
.
vi)
 
Dividend income and keyman insurance policy refund is recognised when the right to receive the income 
is established.
vii)
 
Interest income is recognised on an effective interest rate basis.
viii)
 
Product warranty expenses are determined / estimated and provided for on the basis of the past 
experience of the Group.
o)
 
Leases
 
i.
 
Lease payments
   
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in pro˜t or loss on a straight line basis over 
the term of the lease unless such payments are structured to increase in line with expected general 

in˚ation to compensate for the lessor™s expected in˚ationary cost increase. Lease incentives received are 

recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense, over the term of the lease.
   
Minimum lease payments made under ˜nance leases are apportioned between the ˜nance expense and 
the reduction of the outstanding liability. The ˜nance expense is allocated to each period during the 

lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
121
 
ii.
 
Lease assets
   
Assets held by the Group under leases that transfer to the Group substantially all of the risks and rewards 
of ownership are classi˜ed as ˜nance leases. The leased assets are measured initially at an amount equal 
to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Subsequent to 

initial recognition, the assets are accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy applicable to 

that asset.
   
Assets held under other leases are classi˜ed as operating leases and are not recognised in the Group™s 
statement of ˜nancial position.
p)
 
Impairment of non-˜nancial assets
 
The carrying values of assets/cash generating units at each balance sheet date are reviewed for impairment 
if any indication of impairment exists. If the carrying amount of the assets exceed the estimated recoverable 

amount, an impairment is recognised for such excess amount.
 
The recoverable amount is the greater of the net selling price and their value in use. Value in use is arrived 
at by discounting the future cash ˚ows to their present value based on an appropriate discount factor.
 
When there 
is indication that an impairment loss recognised for an asset (other than a revalued asset) in 
earlier accounting periods which no longer exists or may have decreased, such reversal of impairment loss 

is recognised in the consolidated Statement of Pro˜t and Loss, to the extent the amount was previously 

charged to the consolidated Statement of Pro˜t and Loss. In case of revalued assets, such reversal is not 

recognised.
q)
 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
Cash and cash equivalent in the consolidated balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-
term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insigni˜cant risk of 

changes in value.
 
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash ˚ows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and 
short-term deposits, as de˜ned above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as they are considered an integral 

part of the Group™s cash management.
r)
 
Taxation:
 
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. It is recognised in pro˜t or loss except to the extent 
that it relates to a business combination, or items recognised directly in equity or in OCI.
 
i.
 
Current tax
   
Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year 
and any adjustment to the tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years. It is measured using tax 

rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Current tax also includes any tax arising 

from dividends.
  
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only if, the Group:
  
a)
 
has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts; and
  
b)
 
intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
 
ii.
 
Deferred tax
   
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities for ˜nancial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax 

is not recognised for:
 
˛
  
temporary differences on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a 
business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable pro˜t or loss;
˛
   
temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries and associates to the extent that the Group 
is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that they will 

not reverse in the foreseeable future; and
˛
  
taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.
   
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses, unused tax credits and deductible temporary 
differences to the extent that it is probable that future taxable pro˜ts will be available against which 

they can be used. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent 

that it is no longer probable that the related tax bene˜t will be realised; such reductions are reversed 

when the probability of future taxable pro˜ts improves.
 
Unrecognized deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and recognised to the extent 
that it has become probable that future taxable pro˜ts will be available against which they can be used.
122
 
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when 
they reverse, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
 
The measurement of deferred tax re˚ects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in 
which the Group expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and 
liabilities.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only if:
a)
 
 the entity has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities; 
and
b)
 
the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same 
taxation authority on the same taxable entity.
 
Deferred tax asset / liabilities in respect of on temporary differences which originate and reverse 
during the tax holiday period are not recognised. Deferred tax assets / liabilities in respect of 

temporary differences that originate during the tax holiday period but reverse after the tax holiday 

period are recognised.
s)
 
Government grants
 
Grants received from the government are recognized at their fair value where there is reasonable assurance 
that the grant will be received and the Group will comply with the conditions.
 
Government grants related to income are deferred and recognized in the pro˜t or loss over the period 
necessary to match them with the costs that they are intended to compensate and netted off with the 

expense in the consolidated statement of pro˜t and loss.
 
Government grants related to purchase of property plant and equipment are recognised as deferred income 
and are credited to pro˜t or loss on a straight line basis over expected life of the related asset and presented 

within other income.
t)
 
Provisions, Contingent Assets and Contingent Liabilities:
 
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ˚ows speci˜c to the liability. The 
unwinding of the discount is recognised as ˜nance cost. A provision for onerous contracts is measured at 

the present value of the lower of the expected cost of terminating the contract and the expected net cost of 

continuing with the contract. Before a provision is established, the Group recognises any impairment loss on 

the assets associated with that contract.
 
A disclosure for a contingent liability is made when there is a possible obligation or a present obligation that 
may, but will probably not, require an out˚ow of resources. When there is a possible obligation or a present 

obligation in respect of which the likelihood of out˚ow of resources is remote, no provision or disclosure is 

made.
 
A contingent asset is not recognised but disclosed in the consolidated ˜nancial statements where an in˚ow 
of economic bene˜t is probable.
35.
 
Contingent Liabilities and commitments to the extent not provided for in r
espect of:
 
a)
 
Contingent liabilities :-
 
(
`
 in lakhs)
31
st
 March, 2018
31
st
 March, 2017
i)
Excise and Service Tax matters
525.13
504.69
ii)
Sales Tax matters *
1,227.32
2,624.06
iii)
Income Tax matters
-
3.39
iv)
On account of Cross Subsidy Surcharge on electricity
9.38
9.38
  
*
 
Includes 
`
 972.61 lakhs (31 March 2017 
`
 972.61 lakhs) paid in full against the disputed Sales Tax liability 
under the Kerala General Sales Tax Act, 1963. The matter is pending for hearing in the Honorable 

Supreme Court of India.
   
Note: The Excise and Service Tax, Sales T
ax and Income Tax demands are being contested by the Group 
at various levels. The Group has been legally advised that it has a good case and the demands by the 

authorities are not tenable. Future cash ˚ows in respect of these are determinable only on receipt of 

judgements / decisions pending with various forums/ authorities.
b)
 
Commitments
 
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for (net 
of advances) 
`
 1,356.52 
lakhs (Previous year 
` 
1,447.76 lakhs).
123
36.
 
Provision for warranty and other provisions:
 (
`
 
in lakhs)
31st March, 2018
31st March, 2018
31
st
 March, 2017
31
st
 March, 2017
Warranty 
Provision
Other 
Provisions
Warranty
 Provision
Other 
Provisions
Opening Balance
564.86
100.00
514.62
75.00
Additions
484.42
00.00
626.65
35.00
Utilisations / Reversals
496.85
00.00
576.41
10.00
Closing Balance
552.43
100.00
564.86
100.00
 
Provision is estimated for expected warranty claim in respect of products sold during the year based on past 
experience regarding defective claim of products and cost of recti˜cation or replacement. It is expected that 
most of this cost will be incurred over next 12
 
months which is as per warranty terms.
 
Other provisions are provisions in respect of probable claims, the out˚ow of which would depend on the 
cessation of the respective events.
37.
 
Share capital
a)
 
Rights, prefer
ences and restrictions attached to Equity Shares:
 The Company has only one class of 
equity shares having a value of 
`
 10 per share. Each shareholder is eligible for one vote per share held. 
The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the 
ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the 

equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all 

preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding.
b)
 
Details of equity shares held by shar
eholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate equity 
shares in the Company:
Name of the Shareholder
As at 31
st
 March, 2018
As at 31
st
 March, 2017
No. of
shares held
% of 
Holding
No. of
shares held
% of 
Holding
Vamanrai V. Parekh
10,33,588
6.93%
10,33,588
6.93%
Nilkamal Builders Private Limited
14,64,000
9.81%
14,64,000
9.81%
Hiten V. Parekh
14,74,105
9.88%
15,94,105
10.68%
Nayan S. Parekh
17,50,277
11.73%
19,00,277
12.73%
Heirloom Finance Private Limited
9,12,000
6.11%
9,12,000
6.11%
Manish V. Parekh
10,71,658
7.18%
11,91,658
7.99%
c)
 
Reconciliation of number of equity shares outstanding as on beginning and closing of the year
Particulars
2017-18
2016-17
Number
(
`
 in lakhs)
Number
(
`
 in lakhs)
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the year
14,922,525
1,492.25
14,922,525
1,492.25
Shares issued during the year
-
-
-
-
Shares bought back during the year
-
-
-
-
Shares outstanding at the end of the year
14,922,525
1,492.25
14,922,525
1,492.25
38.
 
Borrowings:
(A) 
 
Secured loans:
 
Working Capital loans :
  
Working capital facilities of 
`
 9,290.75 Lakhs (Previous year 
`
 8,280.56 Lakhs) from Banks are secured on 
˜rst pari passu basis by way of hypothecation of current assets (inventories and trade receivables) of the 

Company, second pari passu charge by way of equitable mortgage on the Company™s immoveable property 

and personal guarantee of Directors. Working Capital Loans repayable on Demand having Interest Rate from 

8.65% to 9.65% (Previous Year 9.30% p.a to 10.50% p.a).
 
Subsidiary Companies
 
Working Capital loans:
  
Working capital facilities of 
`
 25.86 Lakhs (Previous year 
` Nil
) from Banks are secured on ˜rst pari passu basis 
by way of hypothecation of current assets of the Company, second pari passu charge by way of equitable 

mortgage on the Company™s immovable property. Working Capital Loans repayable on Demand having 

Interest Rate from 11% to 13.50 % .
 
Lease loans of 
`
 Nil (Previous year 
`
 14.83 lakhs) is secured against the company speci˜c assets.
(
B)
  
Commercial Paper balance outstanding at the year end 
`
 Nil (Previous year 
`
 Nil lakhs). Maximum balance 
outstanding during the year 
`
 5,000 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 5,000 lakhs).
124
39.
 
Cross Currency Interest Rate Swap:
 
Derivative Instruments outstanding at the Balance Sheet date:
 
(a) 
 
Forward Contracts against imports:
   
Forward contracts to buy USD
 
47.40 lakhs (Previous year USD 24.55 lakhs) amounting to 
`
 3,094.85 lakhs 
(Previous Year 
`
 1,639.06 lakhs).
   
The above contracts have been undertaken to hedge against the foreign exchange exposures arising 
from transactions like import of goods.
40
.
 
Related Party Disclosures:
 
Names of related parties and description of relationship
I
Joint Ventures
Nilkamal Bito Storage Systems Pvt. Ltd.
Cambro Nilkamal Pvt. Ltd.
II
Key Management Personnel
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh, Chairman

Mr. Sharad V. Parekh, Managing Director

Mr. Hiten V. Parekh, Joint Managing Director

Mr. Manish V. Parekh, 
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh, 
Independent Director
:
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy

Mr. Mahendra V. Doshi

Mr. Mufazzal S. Federal

Mr. S. K. Palekar

Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani

Mr. Krishnamurthi Venkataraman
IV
Relatives of Key Management Personnel
Mrs. Dhruvi Nakul Kumar
Mr. Mihir H. Parekh
Ms. Priyanka H. Parekh
V
Enterprise owned or signi˜cantly in˚uenced by 

key Management Personnel or their relatives, 

where transactions have taken place
Nilkamal Crates & Containers
 

M. Tech Industries
 

Raga Plast Pvt. Limited
125
40. Related Party Disclosures (Continued):
(
`
 in lakhs)
Joint 
Venture
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises owned 
or signi˜cantly 
in˚uenced by 
key management 
personnel or their 
relatives
Total
Joint 
Venture
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises 
owned or 
signi˜cantly 
in˚uenced 
by key 
management 
personnel or 
their relatives
Total
2017-18
2016 - 17
Sales of Finished Goods / Others
1,040.78
-
-
33.53
1,074.31
894.64
-
-
50.81
945.45
Sales of Fixed Assets
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
58.13
58.13
Purchases of raw materials, intermediaries and 
˜nished goods
710.19
-
-
933.11
1,643.30
854.85
-
-
585.92
1,440.77
Paid for services and labour charges
4.69
-
-
320.13
324.82
-
-
-
207.83
207.83
Received for services & labour charges
39.68
-
-
-
39.68
49.00
-
-
-
49.00
Deputation Charges
75.27
-
-
-
75.27
153.32
-
-
-
153.32
Technical and Management Fees received
676.65
-
-
-
676.65
552.96
-
-
-
552.96
Dividend received
31.50
-
-
-
31.50
131.40
-
-
-
131.40
Purchase of ˜xed assets
587.59
-
-
-
587.59
134.17
-
-
4.60
138.77
Rent paid
-
-
-
285.07
285.07
-
-
-
266.06
266.06
Remuneration to Directors
-
1,434.29
-
-
1,434.29
-
1,263.32
-
-
1,263.32
Salary Paid
-
-
38.61
-
38.61
-
-
34.57
-
34.57
Board & Audit Committee fees
-
20.90
-
-
20.90
-
17.60
-
-
17.60
Reimbursement of Expenses
70.96
-
-
91.16
162.12
100.96
-
-
85.38
186.34
Rent Received
-
-
-
-
-
7.92
7.92
Balances Outstanding at the year end:
Deposits Receivable
-
-
-
720.00
720.00
-
-
-
720.00
720.00
Other Receivables
574.97
-
-
9.77
584.74
523.87
-
-
22.57
546.44
Other Payables
74.57
-
-
33.20
107.77
72.74
-
-
32.78
105.52
For working capital facilities guarantee jointly 
given by Mr. Vaman Parekh, Mr. Sharad Parekh 

and Mr. Hiten Parekh
-
9,290.75
-
-
9,290.75
-
8,280.56
-
-
8,280.56
Note: 1.
   
The remuneration paid to key managerial personal excludes gratuity and compensated absences as the provision is computed for th
e Holding Company as 
a whole and separate ˜gures are not available.
 
2.
 
 
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm™s length transactions. Outstanding balances at 
the year-end are unsecured.
126
41.
 
(a)
 
(i) Operating Lease in respect of Pr
operties taken on Lease:
 
The group has taken warehouses, showrooms, of˜ces under operating leases. The agreements are executed 
for the period of 36 to 240 months with a non cancellable period upto 60 months. For certain properties 
taken on lease, contingent rent payable as a percentage of revenue from the respective stores, subject to a 

minimum rent.
 
 
(
 
` 
in lakhs)
Particulars
2017-18
2016-17
A
Lease payments recognised in the Statement of Pro˜t and Loss (includes 

contingent rent of 
`
 202.82 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 222.70 lakhs)
4,252.78
4,160.48
B
Future minimum Lease Payments under non-cancelable agreements.
i)
 
Not later than one year
1,440.76
1,196.98
ii)
 
Later than one year and not later than 5 years
3,478.74
2,718.80
iii)
 
Later than 5 years
1,048.36
156.65
 
(ii)
 
 Operating Lease in respect of Other Assets taken on Lease:
 
 
 (
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
2017-18
2016-17
A
Lease payments recognised in the Statement of Pro˜t and Loss
826.93
648.36
b
Future minimum Lease Payments under non cancelable agreements.
i) Not later than one year
759.25
670.75
ii) Later than one year and not later than 5 years
1,045.21
1,182.62
iii) Later than 5 years
-
-
 
The agreement is executed with a non cancelable period upto 60 months (Previous year 60 months).
 
(b)
 
Assets given on Operating Lease:
   
The Group has leased out some of its Material Handling equipments. The lease term is in the range 
of 36-60 months. There is no escalation or renewal clause in the lease agreements and sub-letting is 
not permitted. Rent income during the year 
`
 8.92 lakhs. (Previous Year 
`
 18.99 lakhs). The carrying 
amounts of equipment™s given on operating leases and depreciation thereon for the period are:
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
2017-18
2016-17
i)
Gross Carrying Amount
61.55
61.55
ii)
Depreciation for the Year
8.01
8.01
iii)
Accumulated Depreciation
24.03
16.02
The Total future Minimum rentals receivable at the Balance Sheet Date Is as Under
i)
For a period not later than one year
1.08
2.30
ii)
For a period more than one year but not later than 5 years
-
-
iii)
For a period later than 5 years
-
-
42.
 
Subsequent Events:
 
There are no signi˜cant subsequent events that would require adjustments or disclosure in the consolidated 
˜nancial statement as on the balance sheet date
43.
 
Disclosure of Speci˜ed Bank Notes :
 
The disclosures regarding details of speci˜ed bank notes held and transacted during 8 November, 2016 to 
30 December, 2016 has not been made since the requirement does not pertain to ˜nancial year ended 31
st
 
March, 2018. Corresponding amounts as appearing in the audited standalone Ind AS ˜nancial statements 

for the period ended 31
st
 March, 2017 has been disclosed in the table below:
 (
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
Speci˜ed Bank Notes
Other denomination Notes
Total
Closing cash in hand as on 08.11.2016
102.59
74.91
177.50
(+) Permitted receipts *
-
661.70
661.70
(-) Permitted payments
-
126.93
126.93
(-) Amount deposited in Banks *
102.59
337.46
440.05
Closing cash in hand as on 30.12.2016
-
272.22
272.22
 
* 
 
These amounts includes 
` 
228.67 lakhs which have been directly deposited in the Bank by the customers 
of the Company.
127
44.
 
Corporate Social Responsibility
 
As required by Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013 and rules therein, a Corporate social responsibility 
committee has been formed by the Company. The Company has spent the following amount during the 
year towards corporate social responsibility (CSR) for activities listed under schedule VII of the Companies 

Act, 2013
 
(a)
 
 
Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year 2017-18 
`
 258.74 lakhs (Previous 
year 
`
183.80 lakhs).
 
(b)
 
Amount spent during the year on:
Particulars
2017-18
2016-17
(
` 
in lakhs)
(
`
 in lakhs)
 
(i) Construction/ acquisition of any asset

 (ii) On purpose other than (i) above
-
* 259.02
-
183.87
  
*
 
Amount of 
`
 256.00 lakhs paid to Nilkamal Foundation for CSR activities which has been eliminated 
on Consolidation.
45.
 
Proposed Dividend:
 
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 11th May, 2018 have recommended a payment of ˜nal 
dividend of 
`
 9 (Rupees nine only) per equity share of face value of 
`
 10 each for the ˜nancial year ended 
31
st
 March, 2018. The same amounts to 
`
 1,343.03 lakhs excluding dividend distribution tax of 
`
 256.93 
lakhs same is subject to approval at the ensuing Annual General Meeting of the Company and hence is not 

recognised as a liability
46. 
Financial instruments Œ Fair values and risk management
A. Accounting classi˜cation and fair values

Carrying amounts and fair values of ˜nancial assets and ˜nancial liabilities, including their levels in the 
fair value hierarchy, are presented below. It does not include the fair value information for ˜nancial assets 

and ˜nancial liabilities not measured at fair value if the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation 

of fair value.
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Carrying amount
 Fair value
31st March, 2018
 FVTPL 
 FVTOCI 
Amotised Cost 
 Total 
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets
 Non Current

Unquoted Equity Shares *
 38.00 
-
 -   
 38.00 
-
-
-
 -   
Loans to Employees
-
-
 385.06 
 385.06 
-
-
-
 -   
Security Deposits
-
-
 1,937.21 
 1,937.21 
-
 1,937.21
-
 1,937.21 
Other ˜nancial assets
-
-
 116.83 
 116.83 
-
-
-
 -   
Trade receivables
-
-
 34,009.36 
 34,009.36 
-
-
-
 -   
Cash and cash equivalents
-
-
 1,745.40 
 1,745.40 
-
-
-
 -   
Current Investments
 191.16 
-
-
 191.16 
-
 191.16 
-
 191.16
Other bank balances
-
-
 295.67 
 295.67 
-
 -   
-
 -   
Loans
-
-
 736.72 
 736.72 
-
 736.72 
-
 736.72 
Other Current Financial Assets
-
-
 31.80 
 31.80 
-
-
-
 -   
 229.16 
 -   
 39,258.05 
 39,487.21 
 -   
2,865.09
 -   
2,865.09
Financial liabilities 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Long term borrowings
-
-
-
 -   
-
 -   
-
 -   
Short term borrowings
-
-
 9,316.61 
 9,316.61 
-
-
-
 -   
Trade and other payables
-
-
 17,105.60 
 17,105.60 
-
-
-
 -   
Other Non-current ˜nancial liabilities
-
-
4,996.49
4,996.49
-
 4,996.49 
-
 4,996.49 
Other Current ˜nancial liabilities
-
-
1,429.18
1,429.18
-
 - 
-
-
 -   
 -   
32,847.88
32,847.88
 -   
 4,996.49 
 -   
 4,996.49 
128
46. 
Financial instruments Œ Fair values and risk management (Contd.)
(
`
 in lakhs)
 31st March, 2017 
 Carrying amount
 Fair value
 FVTPL 
FVTOCI 
 Amotised Cost 
 Total 
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets
 Non Current

 Unquoted Equity Shares * 
 38.00 
-
 0.33 
 38.33 
-
-
-
 -   
 Loans to Employees 
-
-
 376.47 
 376.47 
-
-
-
 -   
 Security Deposits 
-
-
 1,875.74 
 1,875.74 
-
 1,875.74
-
 1,875.74
 Other ˜nancial assets 
-
-
 282.44 
 282.44 
-
-
-
 -   
 Trade receivables 
-
-
 30,095.79 
 30,095.79 
-
-
-
 -   
 Cash and cash equivalents 
-
-
 1,329.01 
 1,329.01 
-
-
-
 -   
 Current Investments 
 315.81 
-
-
 315.81 
-
 315.81
-
 315.81
 Other bank balances 
-
-
 81.51 
 81.51 
-
 -   
-
 -   
 Loans 
-
-
 565.26 
 565.26 
-
 565.26 
-
 565.26
 Other Current Financial Assets 
-
-
 64.17 
 64.17 
-
-
-
 -   
 353.81 
 -   
 34,670.72 
 35,024.53 
 -   
2,756.81
 -   
2,756.81
Financial liabilities

 Long term borrowings 
-
-
 9.04 
 9.04 
-
 9.04 
-
 9.04 
 Short term borrowings 
-
-
 8,280.56 
 8,280.56 
-
-
-
 -   
 Trade and other payables 
-
-
 11,140.77 
 11,140.77 
-
-
-
 -   
 Other Non-Current ˜nancial liabilities 
-
-
 4,628.22 
 4,628.22 
-
 4,628.22 
-
 4,628.22 
 Other Current ˜nancial liabilities 
-
-
 2,335.39 
 2,335.39 
-
 -   
-
 -   
 -   
 -   
 26,393.98 
 26,393.98 
 -   
 4,637.26 
 -   
 4,637.26 
 * The fair value in respect of the unquoted equity investments is equal to the cost of the investments as per the contractual 
agreements. 
B. Measurement of fair values
Valuation techniques and signi˜cant unobservable inputs

The following tables show the valuation techniques used in measuring Level 2 and Level 3 fair values, as well as 
the signi˜cant unobservable inputs used.
Financial instruments measured at fair value
Type
 Valuation technique 
Fixed rates long term borrowings
The valuation model considers present value of expected 

payments discounted using an appropriate discounting rate.
Forward contracts
The fair value is determined using forward exchange rates at 

the reporting date.
Security Deposits
The valuation model considers present value of expected 

payments discounted using an appropriate discounting rate.
Interest rate swaps
Present value of the estimated future cash ˚ows based on 

observable yield curves
C. 
 
Financial risk management
The Company has exposure to the following risks arising from ˜nancial instruments:
 
Credit risk ;
Liquidity risk ; and
Market risk
i. 
 
Risk management framework
 
The Company™s Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the 
Company™s Risk Management Policy framework. The Board of Directors have adopted an Enterprise Risk 
Management Policy framed by the Company, which identi˜es the risk and lays down the risk minimisation 

procedures. The Magement reviews the Risk Management Policies and systems on a regular basis to re˚ect 

changes in market conditions and the Company™s activities, and the same is reported to the Board of Directors 

periodically. Further, the Group, in order to deal with the future risks, has in place vrious methods / processes 

which have been imbibed in its organisational structure and proper internal controls are in place to keep a 

check on lapses, and the same are been modi˜ed in accordance witht th regular requirements.
 
The audit committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Company™s Risk Management 
Policies and procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the Risk Management framework in relation to the 

risks faced by the Company. The audit committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal auditors.
129
ii. 
 
Credit risk
 
Credit risk is 
the risk of ˜nancial loss to the group if a customer or counter party to a ˜nancial instrument 
fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the group™s receivables from customers 
and loans and advances.
 
The carrying amount of following ˜nancial assets represents the maximum credit exposure:
 
Trade receivables and loans and advances.
 
The group™s exposure to credit risk is in˚uenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer in 
which it operates. Credit risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing credit limits and continuously 

monitoring the creditworthiness of customers to which the group grants credit terms in the normal course of 

business.
 
The Risk Management Committee has established a credit policy under which each new customer is analysed 
individually for creditworthiness before the group™s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are 

offered. Further for domestic sales, the group segments the customers into Distributors and Others for credit 

monitoring.
 
The group maintains security deposits for sales made to its distributor For other trade receivables, the 
company individually monitors the sanctioned credit limits as against the outstanding balances. Accordingly, 

the group makes speci˜c provisions against such trade receivables wherever required and monitors the same 

at periodic intervals. 
 
The group monitors each loans and advances given and makes any speci˜c provision wherever required.
 
The group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of expected losses in respect 
of trade receivables and loans and advances.
 
Impairment
 
At 31stMarch , 2018, the ageing of trade receivables was as follows.
 
(
` 
in lakhs)
 31st March, 2018 
 31st March, 2017 
Neither past due nor impaired
 18,530.11 
 14,906.23 
 11,826.35 
 11,672.51 
 1,772.16 
 1,761.20 
 1,470.29 
 1,450.19 
Past due 365 days
 1,077.96 
 1,002.44 
 34,676.86 
 30,792.57 
Management believes that the unimpaired amounts which are past due are collectible in full.
 
(
` 
in lakhs)
 Trade receivables 
Impairments 
 Loans and 
advances 
Balance as at 1st April, 2016
 541.35 
 52.05 
Impairment loss recognised
 431.91 
 -   
Balance written back
 (276.48)
 -   
Amounts written off
 -   
 -   
Balance as at 31st March, 2017
 696.78 
 52.05 
Impairment loss recognised
 475.72 
 -   
Balance written back
 (260.42)
 -   
Amounts written off
 (244.58)
 -   
Balance as at 31st March, 2018
 667.50 
 52.05 
 
Cash and cash equivalents:
 
The Group held Cash and Cash equivalents of 
`
 2,041.07 lakhs as on 31st March, 2018 (Previous Year: 
 
`
 1,410.52 lakhs). The cash and cash equivalents are held with bank counter parties with good credit ratings. 
 
Derivatives:
 
The derivatives are entered into with bank. Counter parties with good credit rating.
 
Loans and Advances:
 
The Group held loan and advances of 
`
 3,207.62 lakhs as on 31st March 2018 (Previous Year: 
`
 3,164.08 lakhs). 
The loans and advances are in nature of rent deposit paid to landlords, bank deposits with maturity more 

than Twelve months and others, the same are fully recoverable.
130
iii. 
 
Liquidity risk
 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter dif˜culty in meeting the obligations associated with 
its ˜nancial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another ˜nancial asset. The Group™s approach to 
managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have suf˜cient liquidity to meet its liabilities 

when they are due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or 

risking damage to the Group™s reputation.
 
 
As of 31st March, 2018 and 31st March, 2017 the Group had unitized credit limits from banks of 
`
 8,663.79 
lakhs and 
`
 13,280 lakhs respectively.
 
Maturity pro˜le of ˜nancial liabilities
 
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of ˜nancial liabilities at the reporting date. The 
amounts are gross and undiscounted, and include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of 

netting agreements.
(
` 
in lakhs)
31st March, 2018
Contractual cash ˚ows
Carrying 
amount
Total
Less than 
6 months
6-12 
months
1-2 
years
2-5 
years
More 
than 5 
years
Non-derivative ˜nancial liabilities
Foreign currency term loans from banks
 
-   
 -   
 -   
Working Capital Borrowings
 9,316.61 
 9,316.61 
 9,316.61 
Trade and other payable
14,010.77 
14,010.77 
14,010.77 
Other ˜nancial liabilities
 1,429.18 
 1,429.18 
 1,429.18 
Derivative ˜nancial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging

- Out˚ow
 3,094.83 
 3,094.83 
 3,094.83 
- In˚ow
 -   
 
(
` 
in lakhs)
31st March 2017
 Contractual cash ˚ows
 Carrying 
amount 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6-12 
months 
 1-2 
years 
 2-5 
years 
 More 
than 5 
years 
Non-derivative ˜nancial liabilities

Foreign currency term loans from banks
 -   
 -   
Working Capital Borrowings
 8,280.56 
8,280.56 
 8,280.56 
Trade and other payable
 9,501.71 
9,501.71 
 9,501.71 
Other ˜nancial liabilities
 2,335.39 
2,335.39 
 2,335.39 
Derivative ˜nancial liabilities

Forward exchange contracts used for 
hedging
 -   
- Out˚ow
 1,639.06 
1,639.06 
 1,639.06 
- In˚ow
 -   
The gross in˚ows/(out˚ows) disclosed in the above table represent the contractual undiscounted cash 

˚ows relating to the ˜nancial liabilities which are not usually closed out before contractual maturity. The 

disclosure shows net cash ˚ow amounts for derivatives that are net cash-settled and gross cash in˚ow and 

out˚ow amounts for derivatives that have simultaneous gross cash settlement
iv. 
 
Market risk



is attributable to all market risk sensitive ˜nancial instruments including foreign currency receivables and 

payable and long term debt. We are exposed to market risk primarily related to foreign exchange rate risk, 

interest rate risk and the market value of our investments. Thus, our exposure to market risk is a function of 

investing and borrowing activities and revenue generating and operating activities in foreign currency. The 

objective of market risk management is to avoid excessive exposure in our foreign currency revenues and 

costs.
131
 
Currency risk
 
The Group is exposed to currency risk on account of its borrowings and other payables in foreign currency. 
The functional currency of the Group is Indian Rupee (
`
). The Group uses forward exchange contracts to 
hedge its currency risk, most with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
 
The currency pro˜le of ˜nancial assets and ˜nancial liabilities as at 31st March, 2018, 31st March, 2017 are as 
below:
(
` 
in lakhs)
 31st March, 2018 
 USD
 EURO
 SGD
 GBP
 JPY
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables
 1,408.28 
 441.01 
 -   
 16.76 
 -   
 1,408.28 
 441.01 
 -   
 16.76 
 -   
Financial liabilities

Trade and other payables
 4,308.32 
 80.57 
Less: Forward contracts
 (3,094.83)
 -   
 -   
 1,213.49 
 80.57 
 -   
 -   
Net Exposure
194.78
 360.45 
 -   
 16.76 
 -   
(
` 
in lakhs)
 31st March, 2017
 USD
 EURO
 SGD
 GBP
JPY
Financial assets

Trade and other receivables
 1,321.85 
 215.46 
 12.14 
 31.81 
 1,321.85 
 215.46 
 -   
 12.14 
 31.81 
Financial liabilities

Trade and other payables
 1,390.38 
 124.70 
Forecasted Purchase
 201.68 
Less: Forward contracts
 (1,592.06)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 124.70 
 -   
 -   
 -   
Net Exposure
 1,321.85 
 90.76 
 -   
 12.14 
 31.81 
The following signi˜cant exchange rates have been applied during the year.
Indian Rupee (
`
)
Year-end spot rate
31st March, 2018
31st March, 2017
USD 1
 65.17 
 64.85 
EUR1
 80.17 
 69.28 
JPY100
 0.61 
 0.60 
SGD1
 -   
 -   
GBP1
 91.71 
 80.95 
Sensitivity analysis
A reasonably possible strengthening (weakening) of the Foreign Currency  against the Indian Rupee (
`
) 
at 31st March would have affected the measurement of ˜nancial instruments denominated in foreign 

currencies and affected equity and pro˜t or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that 

all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant and ignores any impact of forecast sales 

and purchases.
31st March, 2018
31st March, 2017
Pro˜t or loss
Pro˜t or loss
Effect in INR
Strengthening
Weakening
Strengthening
Weakening
USD - 3% Movement
5.84
 (5.84)
 39.66 
 (39.66)
EUR - 3% Movement
 10.81 
 (10.81)
 2.72 
 (2.72)
SGD - 3% Movement
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
JPY - 3% Movement
 -   
 -   
 0.95 
 (0.95)
GBP - 3% Movement
 0.50 
 (0.50)
 0.36 
 (0.36)
17.16
(17.16)
 43.70 
 (43.70)
132
 
Interest rate risk:
 
Interest rate risk can be either fair value interest rate risk or cash ˚ow interest rate risk. Fair value interest 
rate risk is the risk of changes in fair values of ˜xed interest bearing investments because of ˚uctuations in 
the interest rates. Cash ˚ow interest rate risk is the risk that the future cash ˚ows of ˚oating interest bearing 

investments will ˚uctuate because of ˚uctuations in the interest rates.
 
Exposure to inter
est rate risk
 
Company™s 
interest rate risk arises from borrowings. The interest rate pro˜le of the Company™s interest-
bearing ˜nancial instruments as reported to the management of the Company is as follows.
 
(
` 
in lakhs)
31st March, 2018
31st March, 2017
Borrowings
Fixed rate borrowings
 -   
 14.83 
Variable rate borrowings
 9,316.61 
 8,280.56 
Total
 9,316.61 
 8,295.39 
 
Fair value sensitivity analysis for ˜xed-rate instruments
 
The Group does 
not account for any ˜xed-rate ˜nancial assets or ˜nancial liabilities at fair value through 
pro˜t or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect pro˜t or loss.
 
The Group manages its cash ˚ow interest rate risk by using ˚oating-to-˜xed interest rate swaps. Under 
theses swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, the difference between ˜xed contract rates 
and ˚oating rates interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional principal amounts.
 
Cash ˚ow sensitivity analysis for variable-rate instruments
 
A reasonably possible change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased 
(decreased) pro˜t or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in 

particular foreign currency exchange rates, remain constant.
 
(
` 
in lakhs)
Pro˜t or (loss)
100 bp increase
100 bp decrease
31st March, 2018
Variable-rate instruments
 (93.17)
 93.17 
Cash ˚ow sensitivity (net)
 (93.17)
 93.17 
31st March, 2017

Variable-rate instruments
 (82.81)
 82.81 
Cash ˜ow sensitivity (net)
 (82.81)
 82.81 
 
The risk estimates provided assume a parallel shift of 100 basis points interest rate across all yield curves. This 
calculation also assumes that the change occurs at the balance sheet date and has been calculated based on 
risk exposures outstanding as at that date. The period end balances are not necessarily representative of the 

average debt outstanding during the period.
47
 
Capital Management
  
For the purpose of the group™s capital management, capital includes issued capital and other equity reserves.

The primary objective of the group™s Capital Management is to maximise shareholders value. The group 

manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in the light of changes in economic environment and 

the requirements of the ˜nancial covenants.
  
 The Company monitors capital using Adjusted net debt to equity ratio. For this purpose, adjusted net debt 
is de˜ned as total debt less cash and bank balances
 
(
` 
in lakhs)
As at 
31st March, 2018
As at 
31st March, 2017
Non-Current Borrowings
 -   
 9.04 
Current Borrowings
 9,316.61 
 8,280.56 
Current maturity of long term debt
 -   
 5.79 
Gross Debt
 9,316.61 
 8,295.39 
Total equity
 84,857.61 
 74,192.57 
Adjusted Net debt to equity ratio
 0.11 
 0.11 
133
48.
Employee Bene˜ts
The Group contributes to the following post-employment de˜ned bene˜t plans.
(i) De˜ned Contribution Plans:
The contributions to the Provident Fund and Family Pension Fund of certain employees are made to 
a Government administered Provident Fund and there are no further obligations beyond making such 

contribution.
The Group recognised  
`
 644.35 lakhs (Previous year: 
`
 598.67 lakhs) Provident fund contributions in the 
Statement of Pro˜t and Loss.
The contributions payable to these plans by the Company are at rates speci˜ed in the rules of the schemes.
(ii) De˜ned Bene˜t Plan:
Gratuity

The Company participates in the Employees Gratuity scheme, a funded de˜ned bene˜t plan for qualifying 
employees.  Gratuity is payable to all eligible employees on death or on separation / termination in terms 

of the provisions of the respective applicable Gratuity rules.
The most recent actuarial valuation of plan assets and the present value of the de˜ned bene˜t obligation 
for gratuity were carried out as at 31st March, 2018. The present value of the de˜ned bene˜t obligations 

and the related current service cost and past service cost, were measured using the Projected Unit Credit 

Method.
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
 Gratuity
 31st March, 2018 
 31st March, 2017 
De˜ned bene˜t obligation
 1,772.70 
 1,562.14 
Fair value of Plan Assets at the end of the year
 (1,485.88)
 (1,226.69)
Net Obligation at the end of the year
 286.82 
 335.45 
B. Movement in net de˜ned bene˜t (asset) liability
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for net 
de˜ned bene˜t (asset) liability and its components
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Gratuity
 De˜ned bene˜t 
obligation
 Fair value of plan 
assets
 Net de˜ned bene˜t 
(asset) liability
 31st March 
2018 
 31st March 
2017 
 31st March 
2018 
 31st March 
2017 
 31st March 
2018 
 31st March 
2017 
 Opening balance
 1,562.14 
 1,315.20 
 1,226.69 
 958.30 
 335.45 
 356.90 
 Included in pro˜t or loss
-
-
 101.39 
 70.78 
 (101.39)
 (70.78)
 Current service cost
 219.55 
 176.64 
-
-
 219.55 
 176.64 
 Past service cost
 89.19 
-
-
-
 89.19 
-
 Interest cost (income)
 118.48 
 91.32 
-
-
 118.48 
 91.32 
 1,989.36 
 1,583.16 
 1,328.08 
 1,029.08 
 661.28 
 554.08 
Included in OCI
Remeasurement loss (gain):
Actuarial loss (gain) arising from:
-
-
 47.61 
 (20.01)
 (47.61)
 20.01 
Demographic assumptions

Financial assumptions
-
-
 (22.20)
 47.61 
 22.20 
 (47.61)
Experience adjustment
 (141.02)
 44.94 
-
-
 (141.02)
 44.94 
Return on plan assets excluding 
interest income
 1,848.34 
 1,628.10 
 1,305.88 
 1,076.69 
 542.46 
 551.41 
 Other
Contributions paid by the employer
-
-
 180.00 
 150.00 
 (180.00)
 (150.00)
 Bene˜ts paid
 (75.64)
 (65.96)
-
-
 (75.64)
 (65.96)
 
Closing balance
 1,772.70 
 1,562.14 
 1,485.88 
 1,226.69 
 286.82 
 335.45 
 
Represented by
 Net de˜ned bene˜t asset
-
-
-
-
 (1,485.88)
 (1,226.69)
 Net de˜ned bene˜t liability
-
-
-
-
 1,772.70 
 1,562.14 
 286.82 
 335.45 
134
C. Plan assets
    Plan assets comprise the following:
(
`
 in lakhs)
 31st March, 2018 
 31st March, 2017 
    Fund managed by Insurance Company
 1,485.88 
 1,226.69 
 1,485.88 
 1,226.69 
D. De˜ned bene˜t obligations
i. Actuarial assumptions

The following were the principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date (expressed as weighted 
averages).
 31st March, 2018 
 31st March, 2017 
Discount rate
7.70%-10.50% p.a.
6.85%-11% p.a.
Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets
7.70%p.a.
6.85%p.a.
Salary escalation rate
7.00%-10 % p.a.
7.00%-10 % p.a.
Employee Turnover
 5.00% -10 % p.a. 
 5.00% -10 % p.a. 
Mortality rate
 Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2006-08) Ult. 
 Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2006-08) Ult. 
Assumptions regarding future mortality have been based on published statistics and mortality tables.
ii. Sensitivity analysis
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding 
other assumptions constant, would have affected the de˜ned bene˜t obligation as follows.
 31st March, 2018 
 31st March, 2017 
 Increase 
 Decrease  
 Increase 
 Decrease  
Discount rate (1% movement)
 1,451.09 
 1,749.98 
 1,273.98 
 1,554.45 
Future salary growth (1% movement)
 1,749.49 
 1,449.04 
 1,552.70 
 1,273.03 
Rate of employee turnover (1% 

movement)
 1,592.41 
 1,585.62 
 1,401.23 
 1,404.54 
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on 

de˜ned bene˜t obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of 

the reporting period.
Expected future cash ˚ows
The expected future cash ˚ows in respect of gratuity as at March 31, 2018 were as follows

Expected contribution

The expected contributions for de˜ned bene˜t plan for the next ˜nancial year will be in line with the 
contribution for the year ended 31 March, 2018: 
`
 180 lakhs
Expected future bene˜t payments
 
`
 In lakhs
31st March, 2019
 73.22 
31st March, 2020
 80.81 
31st March, 2021
 84.13 
31st March, 2022
 61.30 
Thereafter
 340.99 
Compensated Absences:
The Compensated Absences is payable to all eligible employees for each day of accumulated leave on 
death or on resignation. Compensated Absences debited to Statement of Pro˜t and Loss during the year 

amounts to 
`
 230.36 lakhs (Previous Year 
`
 220.48 lakhs) and is included in Note 30 - ‚Employee bene˜ts 
expenses™. Accumulated non-current provision for leave encashment aggregates 
`
 536.65 lakhs (Previous 
Year 
`
 512.47 lakhs) and current provision aggregates 
`
 314.98 lakhs (Previous Year 
`
 282.13 lakhs).
135
49.
 
Hedge accounting
  
The Group™s risk management policy is to hedge its estimated foreign currency exposure in respect of highly 
probable forecast purchases and foreign currency borrowings. The Holding Company uses forward exchange 
contracts to hedge its currency risk and cross currency interest rate swap to hedge its interest rate and 

currency risk related to foreign currency borrowings. Such contracts are generally designated as cash ˜ow 

hedges.
  
The Holding Company determines the existence of an economic relationship between the hedging 
instrument and hedged item based on the currency, amount and timing of their respective cash ˜ows. The 

Company assesses whether the derivative designated in each hedging relationship is expected to be and has 

been effective in offsetting changes in the cash ˜ows of the hedged item using the hypothetical derivative 

method.
a.
Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on ˜nancial position
i)   Cash ˚ow hedge - Forward exchange contracts
31st March, 2018
(
`
 in lakhs)
Type of hedge 
and risks
Nominal 
Value (USD 
in lakhs)
Carrying amount 
of hedging 
instrument (Indian 
Rupee 
`
)
Line item in 
the statement 
of ˜nancial 
position where 
the hedging 
instrument is 
included
Maturity 
date
Hedge 
ratio
Weighted 
Average 
strike 
price/ rate
Changes in 
fair value 
of the 
hedging 
instrument
Change in 
the value 
of hedged 
item used as 
the basis for 
recognising 
hedge 
effectiveness
Assets
Liabilities
Cash ˜ow hedge
Forward exchange 

forward contracts
56.22
 -
 13.37
Liabilities

Other current 

˚nancial liabilities
April 2018 
- May 2018
1:1
 65.26 
 (13.37)
 13.37 
31st March, 2017
(
`
 in lakhs)
Type of hedge 
and risks
Nominal 
Value (USD 
in lakhs)
Carrying amount 
of hedging 
instrument (Indian 
Rupee 
`
)
Line item in 
the statement 
of ˜nancial 
position where 
the hedging 
instrument is 
included
Maturity 
date
Hedge 
ratio
Weighted 
Average 
strike price/ 
rate
Changes in 
fair value 
of the 
hedging 
instrument
Change in 
the value 
of hedged 
item used as 
the basis for 
recognising 
hedge 
effectiveness
Assets
Liabilities
Cash ˜ow hedge

Forward exchange

forward contracts
21.00
 -
35.24
Liabilities

Other current 

˚nancial liabilities
April 2017 
- May 2017
1:1
 66.76 
 (35.24)
 35.24 
 -
b.
Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on ˜nancial performance
31st March, 2018
Change in the 
value of the 
hedging instrument 
recognised in OCI
Hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised in pro˜t 
or loss
Amount reclassi˜ed 
from cash ˚ow 
hedging reserve to 
pro˜t or loss
Line item affected in 
statement of pro˜t 
or loss because of the 
reclassi˜cation
Cash ˚ow hedge
13.04
-
20.28
 Foreign exchange loss
31st March, 2017
Change in the value of 

the hedging instrument 

recognised in OCI
Hedge ineffectiveness 

recognised in pro˚t 

or loss
Amount reclassi˚ed from 

cash ˜ow hedging reserve 

to pro˚t or loss
Line item affected in statement 

of pro˚t or loss because of the 

reclassi˚cation
Cash ˜ow hedge
7.10
-
13.18
 Foreign exchange loss
136
c.
The following table provides a reconciliation by risk category of components of equity and 
analysis of OCI items, net of tax, resulting from cash ˚ow hedge accounting
(
`
 in lakhs)
Movements in cash ˚ow hedging reserve
Balance at 1st April 2016
 (13.18)
Add : Changes in the fair value of effective portion of outstanding cash ˚ow derivative (net of 
settlement)
 (7.10)
Less : Amounts reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss
 -   
Less: Deferred tax 
 -   
As at 31st March, 2017
 (20.28)
Add : Changes in the fair value of effective portion of outstanding cash ˚ow derivative (net of 

settlement)
 19.94 
Less : Amounts reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss
 -   
Less: Deferred tax 
(6.90)
As at 31st March, 2018
 (7.24)
50
 
Earnings per share (EPS)
 
 
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the pro˜t for the year attributable to equity holders of the 

Holding Company by the weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the pro˜t attributable to equity holders of the Holding 
Company by the weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted 

average number of Equity shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential Equity 

shares into Equity shares.
a)
Pro˜t attributable to Equity holders of Company
(
`
 in lakhs)
 31st March, 2018 
 31st March, 2017 
Pro˜t attributable to equity holders of the Company:
Continuing operations
 12,346.96 
 12,253.32 
Pro˜t attributable to equity holders of the Company for basic 
earnings
 12,346.96 
 12,253.32 
Pro˜t attributable to equity holders of the Company adjusted for 

the effect of dilution
 12,346.96 
 12,253.32 
b)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
 31st March, 2018 
 31st March, 2017 
Issued ordinary shares at April 1
 1,49,22,500 
 1,49,22,500 
Effect of shares issued for cash
-
-
Weighted average number of shares at March 31 for basic and Diluted 

EPS
 1,49,22,500 
 1,49,22,500 
C)
Basic and Diluted earnings per share in 
`
(Amount in 
`
)
 31st March, 2018 
 31st March, 2017 
Basic earnings per share
 82.74 
 82.11 
Diluted earnings per share
 82.74 
 82.11 
137
51
.
SEGMENT INFORMATION
Segment Wise Revenue, Results and Other Information
A)
Business Segment:
The Group has organized businesses into 2 categories viz Plastics and Lifestyle Furniture, Furnishings and 
Accessories.  Accordingly the Company has reported its segmental results for these categories.
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
 2017-18
 2016-17
 Plastics
 Lifestyle 
Furniture, 
Furnishings & 
Accessories
 Total
 Plastics
 Lifestyle 
Furniture, 
Furnishings & 
Accessories
 Total
1
Revenue from Operations
 196,352.17 
 21,477.98 
 217,830.15 
 195,182.49 
 23,294.40 
 218,476.89 
Less: Inter Segment Revenue
 1,746.37 
 1,746.37 
 2,260.76 
 2,260.76 
Net Revenue from Operations
 194,605.80 
 21,477.98 
 216,083.78 
 192,921.73 
 23,294.40 
 216,216.13 
2
Segment Result before Tax & 

interest
 19,809.02 
 440.13 
 20,249.15 
 18,742.21 
 318.96 
 19,061.17 
Less: Unallocated expense(Net of 

Unallocated Income)
984.78
 615.75 
Operating Pro˜t
19,264.37
 18,445.42 
Less: Finance Costs
1,253.88
 1,167.24 
Add: Exceptional Income
 -   
 -   
Add/(Less): Prior Period 

Adjustment 
 -   
 -   
Pro˜t Before Tax
 18,010.49 
 17,278.18 
Less: Provision for  Taxes(Net)
 6,295.39 
 5,363.05 
Net Pro˜t after Tax  before share 

of pro˜t of Joint ventures 
 11,715.10 
 11,915.13 
Share of net pro˜t / (loss) from 

Joint venture accounted for 

using equity method
 670.74 
 519.43 
Pro˜t for the Year
 12,385.84 
 12,434.56 
Less; Non Controlling Interests
 38.88 
 181.24 
Pro˜t for the Year
 12,346.96 
 12,253.32 
3
Other Information
Segment Assets
 108,570.66 
 9,613.62 
 118,184.28 
 94,007.02 
 9,503.89 
 103,510.91 
Add: Unallocated Assets
 6,633.13 
 5,802.20 
Total Assets
 124,817.41 
 109,313.11 
Segment Liabilities
 24,235.44 
 3,792.33 
 28,027.77 
 20,946.97 
 3,849.64 
 24,796.61 
Add: Minority Interest
 723.71 
 -   
 723.71 
 723.07 
 -   
 723.07 
 24,959.15 
 3,792.33 
 28,751.48 
 21,670.04 
 3,849.64 
 25,519.68 
Add: Unallocated Liabilities
 11,208.32 
 9,600.86 
Total liabilities
 39,959.80 
 35,120.54 
Capital Expenditure
 10,289.47 
 52.43 
 10,341.90 
 7,923.57 
 15.64 
 7,939.21 
Depreciation and Amortisation
 4,489.00 
 559.46 
 5,048.46 
 4,365.85 
 688.55 
 5,054.40 
Signi˜cant Non Cash Expenses 
other than Depreciation and 

Amortisation
 303.77 
 -   
 303.77 
 272.72 
 56.00 
 328.72 
During the current year, the Company has realigned certain business activities from Lifestyle Furniture, 

Furnishings & Accessories Segment to Plastics Segment, representing revenue of 
`
 1,186 Lakhs (0.55% of 
total revenue from operations for the previous year).
 
 The amount being insigni˜cant the management 
has not reclassi˜ed the previous year segment numbers.
The segment Revenues, Results, Assets and Liabilities include the respective amounts identi˜able to each 
of the segment and amounts allocated on a reasonable basis.
The accounting policies adopted for segment reporting are in conformity with the accounting policies 
adopted for the Holding Company.
138
B)
Geographical Segment:
Although the Group™s operations are managed by product area, we provide additional information based 
on geographies.
Sr. 

No.
Particulars
 Year Ended 31st March, 2018 
 Year Ended 31st March, 2017 
 India 
 Rest of The 
World 
 Total 
 India 
 Rest of The 
World 
 Total 
1
Segment Revenue(Net Sales)
 203,667.85 
 12,415.93 
 216,083.78 
 200,736.55 
 15,479.58 
 216,216.13 
2
Carrying cost of Segment Assets
 113,231.88 
 4,952.40 
 118,184.28 
 99,050.25 
 4,460.66 
 103,510.91 
C)
Revenue from Major Customers
The Group is not reliant on revenues from transactions with any single external customer and does not 
receive 10% or more of its revenues from transactions with any single external customer
52.
 
Investment in Joint Ventur
es
Name of the Joint Venture
Country
of Incorporation
Percentage of 
Ownership Interest
Nilkamal Bito Storage Systems Pvt. Ltd.
India
50
Cambro Nilkamal Pvt Ltd.
India
50
The Holding Company has no material Joint Ventures as at 31st March ,2018. The aggregate summarized 

˜nancial information in respect of the Holding Company™s immaterial Joint Ventures that is accounted for 

using the equity method is set forth below.
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
31st March, 2018
31st March, 2017
Carrying amount of the Company™s interest in Joint Ventures
 4,439.99 
 3,803.02 
Company™s share of pro˜t/(loss) in Joint Ventures
 670.74 
 519.43 
Company™s share of other comprehensive income in Joint 

Venutres
 4.13 
 7.98 
Company™s share of total comprehensive income in Joint 

Ventures
 674.87 
527.41
139
53.   Additional Information to be given as required under Schedule III of the Companies Act 2013, of enterprises consolidated as Subsidiary and Joint Venture
31st March, 2018
31st March, 2017
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Entity
Net Assets i.e Total 
Assets minus Total 
Liabilities
Share in Pro˜t
Other Comprehensive 
Income
Total Comprehensive Income
Net Assets i.e Total 
Assets minus Total 
Liabilities
Share in Pro˜t
Other Comprehensive 
Income
Total Comprehensive Income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
pro˜t or loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
Amount
As % of 
consolidated Total 
Comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
pro˜t or loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
Amount
As % of 
consolidated  Total 
Comprehensive 
income
Amount
Parent
Nilkamal Limited
90.12%
 77,127.24 
91.38%
 11,282.47 
96.22%
 105.25 
91.42%
11,387.72 
89.49%
 67,045.41 
87.66%
 10,741.20 
-203.42%
 (5.35)
87.60%
 10,735.85 
Foreign Subsidiaries
1
Nilkamal Eswaran Plastics 
Private Limited
2.61%
 2,235.38 
0.93%
 114.34 
0.92%
 114.34 
3.00%
 2,249.93 
4.68%
 572.87 
0.00%
4.67%
 572.87 
2
Nilkamal Eswaran Marketing 

Private Limited
0.08%
 65.68 
0.08%
 9.43 
0.08%
 9.43 
0.08%
 58.46 
0.09%
 10.88 
0.00%
0.09%
 10.88 
3
Nilkamal Crates and Bins FZE
0.93%
 797.74 
1.06%
 130.48 
1.05%
 130.48 
1.38%
 1,035.76 
1.86%
 227.69 
0.00%
1.86%
 227.69 
Indian Subsidiaries
Nilkamal Foundation
0.22%
 191.58 
0.81%
 100.63 
0.81%
 100.63 
Minority Interest
1
Nilkamal Eswaran Plastics 
Private Limited
0.82%
 699.06 
0.27%
 33.85 
0.27%
 33.85 
0.94%
 704.61 
1.45%
 177.81 
0.00%
1.45%
 177.81 
2
Nilkamal Eswaran Marketing 

Private Limited
0.02%
 20.74 
0.02%
 2.98 
0.02%
 2.98 
0.02%
 18.46 
0.03%
 3.44 
0.00%
0.03%
 3.44 
3
Nilkamal Foundation
0.00%
 3.91 
0.02%
 2.05 
0.02%
 2.05 
Joint Venture
Nilkamal Bito Storage 
Systems Private Limited
4.01%
 3,427.94 
3.10%
 383.09 
3.42%
 3.74 
3.11%
 386.83 
4.06%
 3,041.12 
3.35%
 410.52 
255.13%
 6.71 
3.40%
 417.23 
Cambro Nilkamal Private 

Limited
1.18%
 1,012.05 
2.33%
 287.65 
0.36%
 0.39 
2.31%
 288.04 
1.02%
 761.90 
0.89%
 108.91 
48.29%
 1.27 
0.90%
 110.18 
Total
100.00%
 85,581.32 
100.00%
 12,346.96 
100.00%
 109.39 
100.00%
 12,456.35 
100.00%
 74,915.65 
100.00%
 12,253.32 
100.00%
 2.63 
100.00%
 12,255.95 
       The above ˜gures are after eliminating intra group transactions and intra group balances.
54     Previous year ˜gures have been re-group / reclassi˜ed wherever necessary.
 
 
 
AS PER OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE ATTACHED.
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
For B S R & Co. LLP
NILKAMAL LIMITED
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
CIN: L25209DN1985PLC000162
Sadashiv Shetty
Sharad V. Parekh
Hiten V. Parekh
Paresh B. Mehta
Priti P. Dave
Partner
Managing Director
Joint Managing Director
Chief Financial Of˜cer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 048648
DIN: 00035747
DIN: 00037550
Membership No. 44670
Membership No. 19469
Mumbai
Mumbai
May 11, 2018
May 11, 2018
(
`
 in lakhs)
140
Nilkamal Limited
Salient features of the ˜nancial statements of Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures
[Pursuant to the ˜rst proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of the Companies 

(Accounts) Rules, 2014 -AOC-1]
Part ﬁAﬂ : Subsidiaries
(
`
 in lakhs)
Sr. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
 Nilkamal Eswaran 
Plastics Private 
Limited, Sri Lanka 
 Nilkamal Eswaran 
Marketing Private 
Limited, Sri Lanka 
 Nilkamal Crates 
and Bins - FZE 
(Ajman - UAE) 
 Nilkamal 
Foundation 
1
Reporting period for the subsidiary 
concerned, if different from the holding 

company™s reporting period
 1st Arpil 2017 to 
31st March 2018 
 1st Arpil 2017 to 
31st March 2018 
 1st Arpil 2017 to 
31st March 2018 
 1st Arpil 2017 to 
31st March 2018 
2
Reporting currency and Exchange rate as on 

the last date of the relevant ˜nancial year in 

the case of foreign subsidiaries.
 SLR vs US $ 
 SLR vs US $ 
 AED vs US $ 
 INR 
3
Share Capital
 61.82 
 0.00 
 32.31 
 0.01 
4
Reseve and Surplus
 2,173.56 
 65.68 
 765.42 
 195.48 
5
Total Assets
 3,673.91 
 256.29 
 1,237.14 
 295.55 
6
Total Liabilities (Excluding Minority interest)
 728.54 
 169.86 
 439.40 
 100.06 
7
Investment other than investment in Subsidiary
 0.01 
 -   
 -   
 -   
8
Turnover, Income and Other Income
 3,996.33 
 325.38 
 1,890.89 
 180.84 
9
Pro˜t Before Taxation
 228.45 
 23.79 
 130.48 
 102.68 
10
Provision for Taxation (incl Deferred Tax)
 78.01 
 11.38 
 
-   
 -   
11
Pro˜t after Tax
 150.44 
 12.40 
 130.48 
 102.68 
12
Dividend
 92.73 
 3.86 
 349.35 
 -   
13
% of shareholding
76.00%
76.00%
100.00%
98.00%
Part "B" : Joint Ventures
Sr. 
No.
Name of Joint Ventures
Nilkamal BITO 
Storage System 
Private Limited, India
Cambro Nilkamal 
Private Limited, India
1
Lastest audited Balance Sheet Date
31st March 2018
31st March 2018
2
Shares of Associate/Joint Ventures held by the company 

on the year end
50.00%
50.00%
3
No. of Share fully paid up of 
`
 10 each
 44,00,000 
 2,10,000 
4
Amount of Investment in Associates/Joint Venture
 2,215.50 
 200.50 
5
Extend of Holding %
50.00%
50.00%
6
Description of how there is signi˜cant in˚uence
Joint Venture
Joint Venture
7
Reason why the Joint Venture is not consolidated
 Consolidated 
 Consolidated 
8
Networth attributable to Shareholding as per latest 

aduited Balance Sheet (
`
 in lakhs)
 3,502.18 
 1,025.89 
9
Pro˜t for the year
a
Consider in Consolidation
 403.80 
 289.59 
b
Not consider in Consolidation
 Nil 
 Nil 
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
NILKAMAL LIMITED
CIN: L25209DN1985PLC000162
Sharad V. Parekh
Hiten V. Parekh
Paresh B. Mehta
Priti P. Dave
Managing Director
Joint Managing Director
Chief Financial Of˜cer
Company Secretary
DIN: 00035747
DIN: 00037550
Membership No. 44670
Membership No. 19469
Mumbai
May 11, 2018
Salient features of Subsidiaries / JV™s
141
Nilkamal Limited
Performance at a glance 
 ( 
`
 In lakhs) 
Particulars
 2013-14 
 2014-15 
 2015-16 
 2016-17 
 2017-18 
Net Sales
 164,907 
 178,666 
 185,759 
 195,665 
 207,116 
Pro˜t Before Tax
 5,813 
 6,052 
 15,466 
 16,892 
 17,876 
Pro˜t After Tax
 4,003 
 4,246 
 10,478 
 11,845 
 11,711 
Share Capital
 1,492 
 1,492 
 1,492 
 1,492 
 1,492 
Reserves and Surplus
 44,782 
 48,474 
 57,028 
 68,221 
 78,225 
Shareholder's Funds
 46,275 
 49,966 
 58,520 
 69,713 
 79,717 
Loan Funds
 17,599 
 12,524 
 7,445 
 8,281 
 9,291 
Total Capital Employed
 63,874 
 62,490 
 65,965 
 77,994 
 89,008 
Long Term Liabilities and Provisions
 4,007 
 4,403 
 4,506 
 5,472 
 5,874 
Deffered Tax Liability
 2,430 
 1,552 
 970 
 522 
 1,072 
Gross Block
 71,937 
 71,927 
 73,607 
 78,980 
 87,382 
Net Block
 33,473 
 28,702 
 26,544 
 28,841 
 33,547 
Investments
 2,556 
 2,556 
 2,562 
 2,568 
 2,568 
Long Term Loans and Advances and other 
Current non current Assets
 5,689 
 5,252 
 5,059 
 5,001 
 4,635 
Net Current Assets
 42,981 
 40,114 
 40,332 
 47,578 
 55,205 
RATIO
Financial Performance %
2013-14
2014-15
2015-16
2016-17
2017-18
Domestic Turnover/Total Revenue
 96.42 
 96.66 
 94.96 
 94.98 
 96.23 
Exports/Total Revenue
 3.37 
 3.00 
 4.54 
 4.41 
 3.40 
Other Income/Total Revenue
 0.21 
 0.34 
 0.51 
 0.61 
 0.37 
Raw Material/Total Revenue
 63.13 
 63.35 
 57.55 
 57.45 
 56.03 
Overheads/Total Revenue
 21.51 
 22.33 
 23.12 
 23.50 
 24.54 
Interest/Total Revenue
 2.51 
 1.65 
 0.97 
 0.59 
 0.60 
 Pro˜t Before Tax/Total Revenue
 3.52 
 3.38 
 8.28 
 8.58 
 8.60 
Depreciation//Total Revenue
 2.96 
 3.00 
 2.84 
 2.48 
 2.33 
Net Pro˜t After Tax /Total Revenue
 2.42 
 2.37 
 5.61 
 6.02 
 5.63 
Return on Capital Employed
 9.19 
 9.10 
 16.88 
 17.07 
 14.91 
Return on Net Worth
 8.98 
 8.82 
 19.32 
 18.47 
 15.67 
Balance Sheet Ratios

Debtors Turnover (days)
 42 
 41 
 44 
 47 
 49 
Inventory Turnover
 67 
 56 
 58 
 61 
 65 
Current Ratio
 3.88 
 3.66 
 3.09 
 3.47 
 3.51 
Asset Turnover
 4.93 
 6.22 
 7.00 
 6.78 
 6.17 
Debt-Equity
 0.69 
 0.41 
 0.18 
 0.12 
 0.12 
Per Share Data - Rs.

EPS
 26.83 
 28.45 
 70.22 
 79.38 
 78.48 
CEPS
 59.61 
 64.48 
 105.78 
 112.09 
 110.96 
Book Value
 310.10 
 334.84 
 392.16 
 467.17 
 534.21 
Shareholder Statitics

DPS
 4.0 
 4.5 
 7.0 
 11.0 
 13.0 
Dividend (%)
 40 
 45 
 70 
 110 
 130 
Dividend Payout (Rs)
 688 
 772 
 1,141 
 1,812 
 2,247 
Dividend Payout (%)
 17 
 18 
 11 
 15 
 19 
Performance at a glance
142
Nilkamal Limited
NOTES
143
NILKAMAL LIMITED
CIN: L25209DN1985PLC000162
 


Phone: 0260-2699082, Fax: 0260-2699023.
 
Email: investor@nilkamal.com, Website: www.nilkamal.com
THIRTY SECOND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ON 
SATURDAY, JUNE 30, 2018
PROXY FORM
Name of the member(s): 
Registered Address: 
E-mail ID: 
Folio No. / DP ID/ Client ID: 
I/We, being the member(s) of Nilkamal Limited, holding ______________shares of the Company, hereby appoint:
1)
 
Name 
Address 
       Email ID 
Signature 
 or failing him ;
2)
 
Name 
Address 
       Email ID 
Signature 
 or failing him ;
3)
 
Name 
Address 
       Email ID 
Signature 
 or failing him ;
as my/our proxy to attend and vote (on a poll) for me/us and on my/our behalf at the 32
nd
 Annual General 
Meeting of the Company, to be held on Saturday, June 30, 2018 at 12.00 noon at Survey No. 354/2 and 354/3, 


Haveli and at any adjournment thereof in respect of following resolutions:
Ordinary Business:
1.
 
Consideration and 
adoption of the Audited Financial Statements including Audited Consolidated Financial 
Statement for the year ended March 31, 2018, together with the Reports of the Board of Directors and the 
Auditors thereon.
2.   Declaration of dividend on equity shares for year ended March 31, 2018.
3. Re-appointment of Mr. Nayan S. Parekh, who retires by rotation.
4. 
 
Re-appointment of M/s. B S R & Co. LLP as the  Statutory Auditors of the Company and ˜xing their remuneration.
Special Business:

5. Rati˜cation of remuneration payable to Cost Auditors for the ˜nancial year 2018-2019.

6. Re-appointment of Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani as an Independent Director for a period of ˜ve years.

7. Re-classi˜cation of two shareholders from ‚Promoter / promoter group category™ to ‚Public category™.
Signed this 
 day of 
, 2018.
Signature of Member: 
 
Signature of the Proxy holder(s) 
Note:
 
1.
 
This form of proxy in order to be effective should be duly completed and deposited at the Registered 
Of˜ce of the Company, not less than 48 hours before the commencement of the Meeting.
 
2.
 
For the 
Resolutions, Explanatory Statement and Notes, please refer to the Notice of the 32
nd
 Annual 
General Meeting.
Af˜x 
Revenue
Stamp
 
`
 1/-
144
Nilkamal Limited
ROUTE MAP
ROUTE MAP
