ANNUAL 
REPORT
 
2
0
-2
1
  ...........
"The greatest danger
in times of turbulence
is not the turbulence
Œ it is to act with
yesterday™s logic."
Œ Peter Drucker
Ahmedabad | 
Bangalore 
(Koramangala | KR Puram | Munekolalu | Rajajinagar)
 | 
Chandigarh | Chennai 
(Aminjikarai 
| Guindy)
 | Coimbatore | 
Delhi
 | 
Ghaziabad | 
Hassan |
 Hyderabad 
(Madhapur Village) 
|
 Indore | 
Lucknow | 
Mangalore    
| Mysore | 
Madurai | 
Pune 
(Hadapsar | Shivajinagar | Yerwada)
 | 
Rajkot | Surat | 
Salem | 
Thrissur
 |
 Vadodara
Aurangabad | 
Asansol
 | Belgavi | Bengaluru | Bhopal | Chhindwara | Davanagere | Dehradun | Deoghar | 
Delhi
 |  
Dhanbad
 | Dibrugarh | Faridabad | Ghaziabad | Greater Noida | Gurugram | 
Guwahati
 | Haldwani | Hassan | 
Hajipur
 

| 
Hazaribagh
 | Hubli | 
Hosur
 | 
Hyderabad
 | Jabalpur | Jaipur | Jammu | Jhansi | Kashipur | Korba | 
Kolkata
 | Lalitpur 
| Malda | Mandya | 
Mysore
 | Nashik | 
Nagaon
 | Patna | Puducherry | Pune | Purnea | Raebareli | Ranchi | 
Rajkot
 | 

Rudrapur | Sagar | Sarjapur | 
Shimoga
 | Tumkur | 
Tirupati
 | 
Trichy
 | 
Thane (MH)
 | Vellore | 
Vijayawada
Due to water scarcity, women in rural India 
spend a lot of time and e˜ort in fetching clean 

water, leading to various health complications. 
To help these women, Nilkamal came up with a 
simple innovation called Wello Water Wheel 

which helps them fetch water easily without 

having to carry it on their heads.
 
Thus, saving 
them from possible health hazards. Even young 

girls who had to help their mothers fetch water 

can now go back to school and continue their 

education. Also, men no longer feel shy about 

fetching water.
This water wheel is contributing towards a 
better 
quality of life for these women and their families.
The
water wheel

that's

driving the

change
In the ongoing ˚ght against the pandemic, Nilkamal is 
also doing its bit in the world's biggest vaccination 

drive in India.
Nilkamal, being one of the global leaders in the molded        
category, decided to contribute important resources 

such as Vaccine Cold Boxes and Carriers.
Tested at WHO-approved laboratories, these Vaccine 
Cold Boxes and Carriers are a perfect ˚t for
                
vaccinating more than a billion citizens of India.
Stren
g
thening 
the 
f
 
i
g
ht against 
Covid-19
Due to water scarcity, women in rural India 
spend a lot of time and e˜ort in fetching clean 

water, leading to various health complications. 
To help these women, Nilkamal came up with a 
simple innovation called Wello Water Wheel 

which helps them fetch water easily without 

having to carry it on their heads.
 
Thus, saving 
them from possible health hazards. Even young 

girls who had to help their mothers fetch water 

can now go back to school and continue their 

education. Also, men no longer feel shy about 

fetching water.
This water wheel is contributing towards a 
better 
quality of life for these women and their families.
The
water wheel

that's

driving the

change
Thirty Fifth Annual Report 
2020-2021
Chief Financial Of˜cer
 
Mr. Paresh B. Mehta
Company Secretary
 
Ms. Priti P. Dave
Bankers
 
 State Bank of India 
 Corporation Bank
 
 IDBI Bank Limited   
 DBS Bank Limited
Auditors
M/s. B S R & Co. LLP
Plant Locations: -
1)
 
Barjora, West Bengal 
2)
 
Bhiwandi, Maharashtra 
3)
 
Hosur, Tamilnadu 
4)
 
Jammu, Jammu & Kashmir 
5)
 
Kharadpada, Union Territory of Dadra & Nagar Haveli 
6)
 
Noida, Uttar Pradesh 
7)
 
Puducherry
8)
 
Sinnar, Maharashtra  
9)
 
Vasona, Union Territory of Dadra & Nagar Haveli 
Registered Of˜ce 
Survey No. 354/2 and 354/3, Near Rakholi Bridge, 
Silvassa Khanvel Road, Vasona, Silvassa 396 230,
Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli.
Corporate Of˜ce
Nilkamal House, 77/78, Road No.13/14, MIDC, 
Andheri (E), Mumbai Œ 400 093, Maharashtra.
Nilkamal Limited
CIN: L25209DN1985PLC000162                       
CONTENTS
 
PAGE NOS
.
Notice
 
..........................................................
2
Directors™ Report and Annexures 
 
...........
14
Business Responsibility Report.................28
Corporate Governance Report
 
................
37
Management Discussion and Analysis
 
....
54
Auditors™ Report and Annexure 
 
.............
57
Balance Sheet
 
...........................................
64
Statement of Pro˜t and Loss 
 
..................
65
Cash Flow Statement 
 
..............................
66
Notes to the Financial Statements
 
..........
68
Auditors™ Report on Consolidated
Financial Statements
 
..............................
108
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
 
.................
114
Consolidated Statement of Pro˜t and Loss
 
..
115
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
 
.....
116
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements 
 
.............................
118
Salient features of Financial Statements 
 
of Subsidiaries / Joint Venture
 
...............
164
Performance at a Glance 
 
......................
165
Board of Directors
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh
 
-
 
Chairman Emeritus
Mr. Sharad V. Parekh
 
-
 
Chairman
Mr. Hiten V. Parekh
 
-
 
Managing Director
Mr. Manish V. Parekh
 
-
 
Joint Managing Director
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh
 
-
 
Executive Director
Mr. Mihir H. Parekh
 
-
 
Executive Director
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
 
-
 
Director
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy
 
-
 
Director
Mr. K. Venkataramanan
 
-
 
Director
Mr. Mahendra V. Doshi
 
-
 
Director
Mr. Mufazzal S. Federal
 
-
 
Director
Mr. S. K. Palekar
 
-
 
Director
2
Notice
NOTICE
NOTICE is hereby given that the Thirty Fifth Annual General Meeting of the Members of Nilkamal Limited will be 
held on Wednesday, August 4, 2021 at 11.00 a.m. through two - way Video Conferencing (ﬁVCﬂ) / Other Audio 
Visual Means (ﬁOAVMﬂ) to transact the following business:
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.
  
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Financial Statements including the Audited Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Company for the ˜nancial year ended March 31, 2021, together with the Reports of the 
Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon.
2.
  
To con˜rm the payment of Interim Dividend on equity shares and to declare Final Dividend on equity shares 
for the ˜nancial year ended March 31, 2021.
3.
  
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Nayan S. Parekh (DIN: 00037597), who retires by rotation and being 
eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
4.
  
To consider and if thought ˜t, to pass, with or without modi˜cation(s), the following Resolution as an 
Ordinary Resolution
:
  
ﬁRESOLVED THAT
 pursuant to Section 148 (3) and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, including any amendment, modi˜cation or 
variation thereto, the Company hereby rati˜es the remuneration of 
`
 3.50 Lakhs (Rupees Three Lakh Fifty 
Thousand Only) 
plus applicable taxes and re-imbursement of out-of-pocket expenses payable to M/s. V. B. 
Modi & Associates
, Cost Accountants (Firm Registration No. 004861)
, who have been appointed by the Board 
of Directors on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, as Cost Auditors of the Company, to conduct 
the audit of the cost records maintained by the Company as prescribed under the Companies (Cost Records 
and Audit) Rules, 2014, as amended, for the Financial Year ending March 31, 2021.
  
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT
 the Board of Directors or any other person authorized by the Board of Directors 
and/or Company Secretary of the Company be and are hereby severally authorized to do all such acts, deeds, 
matters and things as may be deemed necessary to give effect to this resolution."
5.
  
To consider and if thought ˜t, to pass, with or without modi˜cation(s), the following Resolution as a 
Special 
Resolution
:
  
ﬁRESOLVED THAT
 in furtherance of the resolution passed at the 34
th
 Annual General Meeting held on 
August 14, 2020 and pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196, 197, 203 and Schedule V and all other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013, (ﬁActﬂ), read with Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, Articles of Association of the company (including any 
statutory modi˜cation(s) or re-enactment (s) thereof, for time being in force) and all guidelines for managerial 
remuneration issued by the Central Government from time to time and subject to such other consent(s)/
approval(s) as may be required from appropriate authorities, approval of the members of the Company be 
and is hereby accorded to re-designate Mr. Manish V. Parekh (DIN: 00037724) from Executive Director to 
Joint Managing Director ('JMD') of the Company with effect of February 9, 2021 for the remaining period of 
his tenure i.e. upto March 31, 2025 on the existing terms and conditions as applicable to his appointment as 
Executive Director including remuneration as set out in explanatory statement.
  
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT
 except for the change in designation mentioned above, all other terms and 
conditions of his appointment as approved by the Shareholders remain unchanged.
  
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT
 the Board of Directors of the Company (which shall be deemed to include its 
Committee constituted thereof to exercise its powers including the powers conferred by this resolution) 
be and is hereby authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as may be necessary, proper 
and expedient for the purpose of giving effect to this resolution and for matters concerned therewith or 
incidental thereto.ﬂ
                    
By order of the Board
                    
For Nilkamal Limited
Place: Mumbai 
                 
Priti P. Dave
Date: June 03, 2021
     
 
           
Company Secretary
                    
Membership No: A19469
3
Notice
Notes:
1.
  
In view of the continuing COVID-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (ﬁMCAﬂ) has vide its circular 
nos. 14/2020 and 17/2020 dated April 8, 2020 and April 13, 2020 respectively, in relation to ﬁClari˜cation on 
passing of ordinary and special resolutions by companies under the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made 
thereunder on account of the threat posed by Covid-19ﬂ, circular no. 20/2020 dated May 5, 2020 in relation 
to ﬁClari˜cation on holding of Annual General Meeting (AGM) through video conferencing (VC) or other 
audio visual means (OAVM)ﬂ and Circular no. 02/2021 dated January 13, 2021 in relation to ﬁClari˜cation 
on holding of annual general meeting (AGM) through video conferencing (VC) or other audio visual means 
(OAVM)ﬂ (collectively referred to as ﬁMCA Circularsﬂ) and Securities and Exchange Board of India (ﬁSEBIﬂ) 
vide its circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 dated May 12, 2020 in relation to ﬁAdditional relaxation 
in relation to compliance with certain provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations 2015 Œ Covid-19 pandemicﬂ and circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated January 15, 
2021 in relation to ﬁRelaxation from compliance with certain provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 due to the CoVID -19 pandemicﬂ (collectively referred to as ﬁSEBI 
Circularsﬂ) permitted the holding of the Annual General Meeting (ﬁAGMﬂ) through VC / OAVM, without 
the physical presence of the Members at a common venue. In compliance with the MCA Circulars and SEBI 
Circulars, the AGM of the members of the Company is being held through VC / OAVM. The registered of˜ce 
of the Company shall be deemed to be the venue for the AGM.
2.
  
The Explanatory Statement pursuant to the provisions of Section 102 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 in 
respect of the businesses at Item Nos. 4 & 5 above is annexed hereto and forms a part of the Notice.
3.
  
The relevant details of persons seeking appointment/re-appointment under Item Nos. 3 & 5 of the Notice, 
as required pursuant to Regulation 36 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard 2 on General Meetings is also annexed.
4.
  
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a Member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to 
appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his/her behalf and the proxy need not be a Member of the Company. 
Since this AGM is being held pursuant to the MCA Circulars through VC / OAVM, physical attendance of 
Members has been dispensed with. Accordingly, the facility for appointment of proxies by the Members will 
not be available for the AGM and hence the Proxy Form and Attendance Slip are not annexed to this Notice
.
5.
  
The attendance of the Members attending the AGM through VC/OAVM will be counted for the purpose of 
reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
6.
  
The Company™s Statutory Auditors, M/s. B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Registration No.101248W/ 
W-100022), were appointed as Statutory Auditors of the Company for a period of ˜ve (5) consecutive years 
at the AGM of the Members held on June 30, 2018 on the remuneration to be determined by the Board of 
Directors. Pursuant to the amendment made by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 2017, effective from May 
7, 2018, it is no longer necessary to seek the rati˜cation of the shareholders for continuance of the above 
appointment. Hence, the Company is not seeking the rati˜cation of the shareholders for the appointment 
of the Statutory Auditors.
7.
  
Members holding shares in dematerialized form are requested to register their latest Bank Account details 
(Core Banking Solutions enabled Account Number, 9 digit MICR and 11
 
digit IFSC code) with their Depository 
Participant. Members holding shares in physical form are requested to provide the above details, along with 
their Folio Number, to the Company™s Registrar and Transfer Agents, M/s. Link Intime India Private Limited.
8.
  
Members holding shares in dematerialized form are requested to intimate any changes pertaining to their 
name, address, registered email id, bank details, NECS, mandates, nominations, power of attorney, etc. to 
their Depository Participant. Changes intimated to the Depository Participant will be automatically re˚ected 
in the Company™s records. Members holding shares in physical form are requested to intimate any of the 
above mentioned changes, alongwith the request for merging of folio etc., to the Company™s Registrar and 
Transfer Agents, M/s. Link Intime India Private Limited.
9.
  
For the purpose of availing Nomination facility, members holding shares in dematerialised form are required 
to lodge the nomination with their Depository Participant and members holding shares in physical form 
are required to ˜ll and submit Form SH-13 (available on request) with the Company™s Registrar and Transfer 
Agents, M/s.
 
Link Intime India Private Limited. If a Member desires to cancel the earlier nomination and 
record a fresh nomination, he/she may submit the same in Form No. SH-14 (available on request). Members 
are requested to submit the said form to their DPs in case the shares are held in electronic form and to the 
Registrar M/s.
 
Link Intime India Private Limited in case the shares are held in physical form, quoting their 
folio number.
4
Notice
10.
  
As per Regulation 40 of the Listing Regulations, as amended, securities of listed companies can be transferred 
only in dematerialized form with effect from April 1, 2019, except in case of request received for transmission 
or transposition of securities. In view of this and to eliminate all risks associated with physical shares and 
for ease of portfolio management, Members holding shares in physical form are requested to consider 
converting their holdings to dematerialized form
.
11.
  
Members, wishing to claim dividends, which remain unclaimed for the ˜nancial years 2013-2014 onwards, 
are requested to write to the Company™s Registrar and Transfer Agents, M/s.
 
Link Intime India Private Limited 
at C-101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli West, Mumbai: 400083. It may be noted that once such unclaimed 
dividends are transferred on expiry of seven years to the Investor Education and Protection Fund, no claim 
shall lie in respect thereof. Further, shares on which the dividend remains unclaimed for seven consecutive 
years will also be transferred to the IEPF Suspense Account in accordance with the Section 124 of the Act, 
and the applicable Rules. The shares transferred to the IEPF Suspense Account can be claimed back by the 
concerned shareholders from the IEPF Authority after complying with the procedure prescribed under the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016.
12.
  
Any request for revalidation of dividend warrant(s) by any member of the Company may be directed to the 
Company or its Registrar and Transfer Agents, M/s. Link Intime India Private Limited
.
13.
  
In compliance with the aforesaid MCA Circulars and SEBI Circular, Notice of the AGM along with the Annual 
Report 2020-21 is being sent only through electronic mode to those Members whose email addresses are 
registered with the Company/Depositories. Members may note that the Notice and Annual Report 2020-21 
will also be available on the Company™s website 
www.nilkamal.com
, websites of the Stock Exchanges i.e. 
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited at 
www.bseindia.com
 and 
www.nseindia.com
 
respectively and on the website of e-voting agency NSDL at the website address www.evoting.nsdl.com.
14.
 
 

Book Closure and Dividend :
 
a.
  
The Register of Members and the Share Transfer Books of the Company will be closed from Thursday, 
July 29, 2021 to Wednesday, August 4, 2021, both days inclusive
.
  
For Shares held in electronic form: 
    
   
To all the Bene˜cial Owners as at the end of the day on Wednesday, July 28, 2021 in the list of bene˜cial 
owners to be furnished by the National Securities Depository Limited (‚NSDL™) and Central Depository 
Services (India) Limited (‚CDSL™); and
  
For Shares held in physical form: 
    
   
To all Members in respect of shares held in physical form after giving effect to valid transmission and 
transposition in respect of valid requests lodged with the Company as of the close of business hours on 
Wednesday, July 28, 2021.
 
b.
  
Pursuant to the Finance Act, 2020, dividend income is taxable in the hands of the Shareholders with 
effect from April 1, 2020 and the Company is required to deduct TDS from dividend paid to the Members 
at prescribed rates in the Income Tax Act, 1961 (‚IT Act™). In general, to enable compliance with TDS 
requirements, Members are requested to complete and/or update their Residential Status, Permanent 
Account Number (‚PAN™), category as per the IT Act with their Depository Participants (‚DPs™) or in case 
shares are held in physical form, with the Company/Registrar and Transfer Agent, M/s. Link Intime India 
Private Limited by sending documents through e-mail by Wednesday, July 28, 2021. For the detailed 
process, the information is available on the Company™s website at www.nilkamal.com
15.
  
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 20 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 (as amended) and Regulation 44 of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
& Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015 (as amended), and the Circulars issued by the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs dated April 08, 2020, April 13, 2020 and May 05, 2020 the Company is providing facility of 
remote e-Voting to its Members in respect of the business to be transacted at the AGM. For this purpose, the 
Company has entered into an agreement with National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) for facilitating 
voting through electronic means, as the authorized agency. The facility of casting votes by a member using 
remote e-Voting system as well as voting on the day of the AGM will be provided by NSDL.
16.
 
Instructions for the Members for attending the AGM through Video Conference:
  
The Members can join the AGM in the VC/OAVM mode 15 minutes before and after the scheduled time 
of the commencement of the Meeting by following the procedure mentioned in the Notice. The facility 
of participation at the AGM through VC/OAVM will be made available for 1000 members on ˜rst come 
˜rst served basis. This will not include large Shareholders (Shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding), 
Promoters, Institutional Investors, Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, the Chairpersons of the Audit 
5
Notice
Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Auditors 
etc. who are allowed to attend the AGM without restriction on account of ˜rst come ˜rst served basis 
Shareholders can also use the OTP based login for logging into the e-voting system of NSDL.
17)
  
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR REMOTE E-VOTING AND JOINING GENERAL MEETING ARE AS 
UNDER:
 
1.
  
The remote e-voting period begins on Sunday, August 1, 2021 at 9.00 a.m. and ends on Tuesday, August 
3, 2021, at 5.00 p.m. The remote e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting thereafter. 
The Members, whose names appear in the Register of Members / Bene˜cial Owners as on the record 
date (cut-off date) i.e. Wednesday, July 28, 2021, may cast their vote electronically. The voting right of 
shareholders shall be in proportion to their share in the paid-up equity share capital of the Company as 
on the cut-off date, being Wednesday, July 28, 2021.
 
2.
  
Once the vote on a resolution is cast by the Member, such Member will not be allowed to change it 
subsequently.
 
3.
 
A person who is not a Member as on cut-off date should treat this Notice for information purpose only.
 
4.
  
Mr. Pratik M. Shah (FCS 7431, CP 7401) Practicing Company Secretary, has been appointed as the 
Scrutinizer to scrutinize the e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner.
   
The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of voting at the AGM, ˜rst count the votes cast 
during the AGM, thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote e-voting and make, not later than 48 
hours of conclusion of the AGM, a consolidated Scrutinizer™s Report of the total votes cast in favour or 
against, if any, to the Chairman or a person authorised by him in writing, who shall countersign the same.
   
The Results declared along with the report of the Scrutiniser will be placed on the website of the 
Company 
www.nilkamal.com
 and on the website of NSDL i.e. 
www.evoting.nsdl.com
 immediately after 
the declaration of result by the Chairman or Managing Director or any one Director of the Company. The 
results shall also be immediately forwarded to BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited, 
where the equity shares of the Company are listed.
 
5.
  
Subject to receipt of requisite number of votes, the Resolutions shall be deemed to have been passed on 
the date of the AGM i.e. Wednesday, August 4, 2021.
 
6.
 
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting system?
   
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system consists of ﬁTwo Stepsﬂ which are mentioned below:
  
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
  
A)
 
 

Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode.
    
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat 
account maintained with Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised to 
update their mobile number and email Id in their demat accounts in order to access e-Voting facility.
   
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of shareholders
 Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with NSDL.
1.
  
Existing 
IDeAS
 user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL Viz. 
https://
eservices.nsdl.com
 either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. 
On the e-Services home page click on the ﬁ
Bene˜cial Ownerﬂ
 
icon under 
ﬁLoginﬂ
 which is available under 
‚IDeAS™
 section 
, this 
will prompt you to enter your existing User ID and Password. After 
successful authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting services 
under Value added services. Click on 
ﬁAccess to e-Votingﬂ
 under 
e-Voting services and you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click 
on company name or 
e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL
 and 
you will be re-directed to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your 
vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting.
2.
  
If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is 
available at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com
. Select 
ﬁRegister Online for 
IDeAS Portalﬂ
 or click at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/
IdeasDirectReg.jsp
6
3. 
  
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the 
following URL: 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/
 either on a Personal 
Computer or on a mobile. 
Once the home page of e-Voting system 
is launched, click on the icon ﬁLoginﬂ which is available under 
‚Shareholder/Member™ section. 
A new screen will open. You will have 
to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number 
hold with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Veri˜cation Code as shown on 
the screen. After successful authentication, you will be redirected 
to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click 
on company name or 
e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL
 and 
you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your 
vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting.
4.
  
Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App ﬁ
NSDL 
Speede
ﬂ facility by scanning the QR code mentioned below for 
seamless voting experience.
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with CDSL
1.
  
Existing users who have opted for Easi / Easiest, they can login 
through their user id and password. Option
 
will be made available 
to reach e-Voting page without any further authentication. The 
URL for users to login to Easi / Easiest are 
https://web.cdslindia.com/
myeasi/home/login
 or 
www.cdslindia.com
 and click on New System 
Myeasi.
2.
  
After successful login of Easi/Easiest the user will be also able to see 
the E Voting Menu. The Menu will have links of 
e-Voting service 
provider i.e. NSDL.
 Click on 
NSDL
 to cast your vote.
3.
  
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register 
is available at 
https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasi/Registration/
EasiRegistration
4.
  
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing 
demat Account Number and PAN No. from a link in 
www.cdslindia.
com
 home page. The system will authenticate the user by sending 
OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the demat Account. 
After successful authentication, user will be provided links for the 
respective ESP i.e. 
NSDL
 where the e-Voting is in progress.
Individual Shareholders 
(holding securities in 
demat mode) login 
through their depository 
participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account 
through your Depository Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for 
e-Voting facility. upon logging in, you will be able to see e-Voting 
option. Click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL 
Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see 
e-Voting feature. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider 
i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for 
casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual 
meeting & voting during the meeting.
Notice
7
   
 
Important note
: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget 
User ID and Forget Password option available at abovementioned website.
   
 

Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical 
issues related to login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL 
helpdesk by sending a request at 
evoting@nsdl.co.in
 or call at 
toll free no.: 1800 1020 990 and 1800 22 44 30
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL 
helpdesk by sending a request at 
helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.
com
 
or contact at 022- 23058738 or 022-23058542-43
 
B) 
 

Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than 
Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode and shareholders holding 
securities in physical mode.
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
1.
  
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: 
https://
www.evoting.nsdl.com/
 either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
2.
  
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon ﬁLoginﬂ which is available 
under ‚Shareholder/Member™ section.
3. 
  
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your Password/OTP and a Veri˜cation 
Code as shown on the screen.
4. 
  
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDEAS, you can log-in at 
https://
eservices.nsdl.com/
 with your existing IDEAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices after using 
your log-in credentials, click on e-Voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote 
electronically.
Manner of holding shares i.e. 
Demat (NSDL or CDSL) or Physical
 Your User ID is:
a)
  
For Members who hold shares in 
demat account with NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 
12****** then your user ID is IN300***12******.
b)
  
For Members who hold shares in 
demat account with CDSL.
16 Digit Bene˜ciary ID
For example if your Bene˜ciary ID is 12************** 
then your user ID is 12**************
c)
  
For Members holding shares in 
Physical Form.
EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with 
the company
For example if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 116204 
then user ID is 116204001***
5.
 
Password details for shareholders other than Individual shareholders are given below:
 
a)
  
If you are already registered for e-Voting, then you can user your existing password to login 
and cast your vote.
 
b)
  
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for the ˜rst time, you will need to retrieve the ‚initial 
password™ which was communicated to you. Once you retrieve your ‚initial password™, you 
need to enter the ‚initial password™ and the system will force you to change your password.
 
c)
 
How to retrieve your ‚initial password™?
  
(i)
  
If your email ID is registered in your demat account or with the company, your ‚initial 
password™ is communicated to you on your email ID. Trace the email sent to you from 
NSDL from your mailbox. Open the email and open the attachment i.e. a .pdf ˜le. 
Open the .pdf ˜le. The password to open the .pdf ˜le is your 8 digit client ID for NSDL 
account, last 8 digits of client ID for CDSL account or folio number for shares held in 
physical form. The .pdf ˜le contains your ‚User ID™ and your ‚initial password™.
  
(ii)
  
If your email ID is not registered, please follow steps mentioned below in 
process for 
those shareholders whose email ids are not registered.
Notice
8
6.
 
 
 

If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the ﬁ Initial passwordﬂ or have forgotten 
your password:
 
 
a)
  
Click on ﬁ
Forgot User Details/Password?
ﬂ(If you are holding shares in your demat account 
with NSDL or CDSL) option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com
.
 
b)
  
Physical User Reset Password?
ﬂ (If you are holding shares in physical mode) option available 
on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com
.
 
c)
  
If you are still unable to get the password by aforesaid two options, you can send a request 
at 
evoting@nsdl.co.in
 mentioning your demat account number/folio number, your PAN, 
your name and your registered address etc.
7.
  
After entering your password, tick on Agree to ﬁTerms and Conditionsﬂ by selecting on the 
check box.
8.
 
Now, you will have to click on ﬁLoginﬂ button.
9.
 
After you click on the ﬁLoginﬂ button, Home page of e-Voting will open.
  
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system.
  
How to cast your vote electronically and join General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system?
1.
  
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see all the companies ﬁEVENﬂ in which you are 
holding shares and whose voting cycle and General Meeting is in active status.
2.
  
Select ﬁEVENﬂ of company for which you wish to cast your vote during the remote e-Voting period 
and casting your vote during the General Meeting. For joining virtual meeting, you need to click 
on ﬁVC/OAVMﬂ link placed under ﬁJoin General Meetingﬂ.
3.
 
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting page opens.
4.
  
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify the number 
of shares for which you wish to cast your vote and click on ﬁSubmitﬂ and also ﬁCon˜rmﬂ when 
prompted.
5.
 
Upon con˜rmation, the message ﬁVote cast successfullyﬂ will be displayed.
6.
  
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you by clicking on the print option on the 
con˜rmation page.
7.
  
Once you con˜rm your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
18.
 
General Guidelines for shareholders
 
1.
  
Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) are required to send scanned copy 
(PDF/JPG Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority letter etc. with attested specimen signature 
of the duly authorized signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer by e-mail to 
evoting.
pms@gmail.com
 with a copy marked to 
evoting@nsdl.co.in
.
 
2.
  
It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep 
your password con˜dential. Login to the e-voting website will be disabled upon ˜ve unsuccessful attempts to 
key in the correct password. In such an event, you will need to go through the ﬁ
Forgot User Details/Password?
ﬂ 
or ﬁ
Physical User Reset Password?
ﬂ option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com
 to reset the password.
 
3.
  
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and 
e-voting user manual for Shareholders available at the download section of 
www.evoting.nsdl.com
 or 
call on toll free no.: 1800 1020 990 and 1800 22 44 30 or send a request Ms. Pallavi Mhatre, Manager - 
NSDL at 
evoting@nsdl.co.in
 
4.
  
Any person holding shares in physical form and non-individual shareholders, who acquires shares of the 
Company and becomes member of the Company after the notice is send through e-mail and holding shares 
as of the cut-off date i.e. July 28, 2021, may obtain the login ID and password by sending a request at 
evoting@nsdl.co.in
 or Issuer/RTA. However, if you are already registered with NSDL for remote e-voting, 
then you can use your existing user ID and password for casting your vote. If you forgot your password, you 
can reset your password by using ﬁForgot User Details/Passwordﬂ or ﬁPhysical User Reset Passwordﬂ option 
available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com
 or call on toll free no. 1800 1020 990 and 1800 22 44 30. In case of 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode who acquires shares of the Company and becomes 
a Member of the Company after sending of the Notice and holding shares as of the cut-off date i.e. July 28, 
2021 may follow steps mentioned in the Notice of the AGM under ﬁAccess to NSDL e-Voting systemﬂ.
19.
  
Process for those shareholders whose email ids are not registered with the depositories for 
procuring user id and password and registration of e mail ids for e-voting for the resolutions set 
out in this notice
:
 
1.
  
In case shares are held in physical mode please provide Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned copy 
of the share certi˜cate (front and back), PAN (self attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self 
attested scanned copy of Aadhar Card) by email to 
investor@nilkamal.com
.
Notice
9
 
2.
  
In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 16 digit 
bene˜ciary ID), Name, client master or copy of Consolidated Account statement, PAN (self attested 
scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self attested scanned copy of Aadhar Card) to 
investor@nilkamal.
com
. If you are an Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode, you are requested to refer 
to the login method explained at 
step 1 (A
) i.e. 
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting 
for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode
.
 
3.
  
Alternatively shareholder/members may send a request to 
evoting@nsdl.co.in
 for procuring user id and 
password for e-voting by providing above mentioned documents.
 
4.
  
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat 
account maintained with Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are required to update 
their mobile number and email ID correctly in their demat account in order to access e-Voting facility.
20.
 
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR e-VOTING ON THE DAY OF THE AGM ARE AS UNDER:-
 
1.
  
The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the AGM is same as the instructions mentioned above for 
remote e-voting.
 
2.
  
Only those Members/ shareholders, who will be present in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and have 
not casted their vote on the Resolutions through remote e-Voting and are otherwise not barred from 
doing so, shall be eligible to vote through e-Voting system in the AGM.
 
3.
  
Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting will be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they 
will not be eligible to vote at the AGM.
 
4.
  
The details of the person who may be contacted for any grievances connected with the facility for 
e-Voting on the day of the AGM shall be the same person mentioned for Remote e-voting.
21. INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING THE AGM THROUGH VC/OAVM ARE AS UNDER:
 
1.
  
Member will be provided with a facility to attend the AGM through VC/OAVM through the NSDL 
e-Voting system. Members may access by following the steps mentioned above for 
Access to NSDL 
e-Voting system
. After successful login, you can see link of ﬁVC/OAVM linkﬂ placed under 
ﬁJoin 
General meetingﬂ
 menu against company name. You are requested to click on VC/OAVM link placed 
under Join General Meeting menu. The link for VC/OAVM will be available in Shareholder/Member login 
where the EVEN of Company will be displayed. Please note that the members who do not have the User 
ID and Password for e-Voting or have forgotten the User ID and Password may retrieve the same by 
following the remote e-Voting instructions mentioned in the notice to avoid last minute rush.
 
2.
 
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through Laptops for better experience.
 
3.
  
Further Members will be required to allow Camera and use Internet with a good speed to avoid any 
disturbance during the meeting.
 
4.
  
Please note that Participants Connecting from Mobile Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting 
via Mobile Hotspot may experience Audio/Video loss due to Fluctuation in their respective network. It is 
therefore recommended to use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches.
 
5.
  
Shareholders who would like to express their views/have questions, may send their questions in advance 
mentioning their name, demat account number/folio number, email id, mobile number at 
investor@
nilkamal.com
 on or before July 27, 2021. The same will be replied by the Company suitably.
 
6.
  
Members who would like to express their views or ask questions during the AGM may register themselves 
as a speaker by sending their request from their registered email address mentioning their name, DP 
ID and Client ID/folio number, PAN, mobile number at 
investor@nilkamal.com
 from July 24, 2021 (9:00 
a.m. IST) to July 27, 2021 (5:00 p.m. IST). Those Members who have registered themselves as a speaker 
will only be allowed to express their views/ask questions during the AGM. The Company will select the 
speakers on ˜rst come ˜rst serve basis. The Company reserves the right to restrict the number of speakers 
depending on the availability of time for the AGM.
22.
  
The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their shareholding maintained under section 
170 of the Act, the Register of Contracts or arrangements in which the Directors are interested under Section 
189 of the Act and all other documents referred to in the Notice will be available for inspection in electronic 
mode on NSDL portal.
23.
 
Since the AGM will be held through VC/OAVM, the Route Map is not annexed in this Notice
 
                    
By order of the Board
                    
For Nilkamal Limited
Place: Mumbai 
                 
Priti P. Dave
Date: June 03, 2021
     
 
           
Company Secretary
                    
Membership No: A19469
Notice
10
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
Item No. 4
The Board of Directors of the Company, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, had approved the 
appointment and remuneration of M/s. V. B. Modi & Associates
, Cost Accountants (Firm Registration No. 004861)
 
to conduct the audit of the Cost Records of the Company for the ˜nancial year 2021-2022. In terms of provisions 
of Section 148(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 14(a)(ii) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor along with the reimbursement of expenses incurred towards 
the audit is required to be rati˜ed by the Members of the Company. Accordingly, consent of the Members is 
sought to ratify the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors.
No Director, Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives, are interested or concerned in the resolution.
The Board recommends the Resolution as mentioned at Item No. 4 above for the approval of the members by 
way of Ordinary Resolution.
Item No. 5
The Members of the Company at the Annual General Meeting held on August 14, 2020, based on the 
recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) and the Board of Directors of the 
Company (‚Board™), had accorded their approval by way of a Special Resolution to the appointment Mr. Manish 
V. Parekh (DIN: 00037724) as the Executive Director of the Company for a period of ˜ve years commencing from 
April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2025 at the existing terms & conditions including remuneration thereof.
However, as a part of the succession planning process of the Company, the Board, on the recommendation 
of Nomination and Remuneration Committee, decided to re-designate Mr Manish V. Parekh, from Executive 
Director to Joint Managing Director of the Company for his remaining tenure i.e. upto March 31, 2025, subject 
to shareholders approval. However, there is no change in the existing terms & conditions including remuneration 
as mentioned below. The terms & conditions including remuneration are in compliance with Schedule V (Revised) 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (including any statutory modi˜cation(s) or re- enactment thereof, for the time 
being in force, herein after referred to as the ﬁActﬂ) including the norms laid down in Sections 196, 197 & other 
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
Remuneration:
1.
 
Basic Salary:
  
Monthly Salary of 
` 
9,86,700/- (Rupees Nine Lakhs Eighty Six Thousand Seven Hundred only) in the scale of 
 
` 
9,00,000/- to 
` 
20,00,000/- per month, during his tenure of of˜ce.
2.
 
Commission:
  
Mr. Manish V. Parekh shall be paid commission to the extent of 1% of the net pro˜t of the Company over and 
above the net pro˜ts of 
` 
50.00 Crores for each ˜nancial year as calculated under Section 198 and such other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013, as may be determined by the Board of Directors 
(including its committee thereof) from time to time.
Perquisites/allowances:
1.
  
Mr. Manish V. Parekh shall be entitled to House Rent Allowance not exceeding 50% of the basic salary per month.
2.
  
Leave travel allowance at one month's basic salary, Company cars for of˜cial and personal use including 
fuel, maintenance and other expenses, reimbursement of expenses towards telephones, telefax and other 
communication facilities at the residence.
3.
  
Other perquisites shall include expenses/reimbursement towards driver's salary, food vouchers, gas, electricity, 
water, furnishings and repairs, membership fees/ subscription of clubs, expenses incurred towards travelling, 
boarding and lodging including for Mr. Manish V. Parekh's spouse and attendant(s) during business trips, 
actual medical expenses incurred in India and/or abroad including hospitalization for self and family, medical 
insurance (for self and family) and personal accident insurance, term life insurance or any other insurance 
premium paid as per the policy of the Company.
Notice
11
4.
  
Contribution to Provident fund, Superannuation fund, National Pension Scheme or Annuity fund as per the 
Rules of the Company to the extent these either singly or put together do not exceed the limit laid down 
under the Income Tax Act, 1961 or under any statutory modi˜cation or re-enactment thereof.
5.
  
Such other perquisites and allowances as per the policy/rules of the Company in force and/or as may be 
approved by the Board from time to time.
 
The perquisites shall be valued as per the Income Tax Act, 1961, wherever applicable
Bene˜ts and Amenities:
1.
  
Gratuity bene˜ts in accordance with the rules and regulations in force in the Company from time to time.
2. 
  
Earned/ privilege leave, sick leave and casual leave shall be entitled as per the policy of the Company. He shall 
also be entitled to Leave encashment which shall be as per the policy of the Company.
3. 
  
Bene˜ts under loan and other schemes in accordance with the practices, rules and regulations in force in the 
Company from time to time subject to applicable laws.
4.
  
Reimbursement of entertainment and other business promotion expenses actually incurred by Mr. Manish V. 
Parekh in the course of business of the Company.
5. 
  
Reimburse or payment of all costs, charges and expenses that may have been or may be incurred by 
 
Mr. Manish V. Parekh for the purpose of or on behalf of the Company.
6.
  
Such other bene˜ts and amenities as may be provided by the Company to other senior of˜cers from time to time.
  
Further in pursuance of the provisions of Section 203(3) of Companies Act, 2013, the appointment of 
 
Mr. Manish V. Parekh is made by the Board with unanimous consent and also notice of that meeting was 
given to all the Directors.
 
The statement pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 is annexed to this Notice.
  
Mr. Manish V. Parekh is interested in the resolution set out at Item No. 5 of the Notice. Mr. Hiten V. Parekh 
ŒManaging Director and Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh Œ Chairman Emeritus, being related to Mr. Manish V. Parekh 
may be deemed to be interested in the said Item.
  
Other relatives of Mr. Manish V. Parekh may be deemed to be interested in the resolution set out at Item No. 5 
of the Notice to the extent of their shareholding interest, if any, in the Company.
  
Save and except the above, none of the other Directors, Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives are 
interested or concerned in the resolution.
  
The Board recommends the Resolution as mentioned at Item No. 5 above for the approval of the members 
by way of Special Resolution.
                    
By order of the Board
                    
For Nilkamal Limited
Place: Mumbai 
                 
Priti P. Dave
Date: June 03, 2021
     
 
           
Company Secretary
                    
Membership No: A19469
Notice
12
DETAILS OF DIRECTOR SEEKING APPOINTMENT/RE-APPOINTMENT OR VARIATION IN TERMS OF 
REMUNERATION AT THE ENSUING ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING.
(Pursuant to Regulation 36 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard 2 on General Meetings)
Name of the Director
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh
Mr. Manish V. Parekh
DIN
00037597
00037724
Item No.
3
5
Date of Birth
March 8, 1972
February 2, 1969
Date of ˜rst appointment on Board
April 1, 2000
April 1, 2000
Quali˜cations
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh, aged 49 years, 
has a bachelor's degree in plastic 
engineering from the University 
of Massachusetts, United States of 
America. He has also undertaken 
a program of Owner/ President 
Management (OPM) from the 
Harvard Business School. He has on 
his hands rich experience of 24 years 
in various ˜elds. He is responsible 
for looking into the operations 
of various factories and overlooks 
the Company's Material Handling 
business and is steering Nilkamal 
to a strong position in the Material 
Handling industry which in its own is 
a revolution in the industry. Mr. Nayan 
S. Parekh is the brain behind setting 
up the Company's Joint Venture Viz. 
Nilkamal Bito Storage Systems Private 
Limited Œ the Joint Venture with 
Bito Lagertechnik Bittmann GmbH, 
Germany and Cambro Nilkamal 
Private Limited Œ the Indo US Joint 
Venture with Cambro Manufacturing 
Co. He is also foremost in establishing 
the Company's pro˜table subsidiary 
viz NCB - FZE at Ajman, which is a free 
trade zone.
Mr. Manish V. Parekh, aged 
52 years, holds a bachelor™s 
degree in commerce from 
Mumbai University. He has 
also undertaken a program of 
Owner/ President Management 
(OPM) from the Harvard Business 
School. He has around 3 decades 
of rich experience in the ˜eld 
of marketing and overlooks the 
furniture and ‚@home™ business 
of the Company. He is the pillar 
behind the enormous dealer 
network which is responsible 
for catering to requirements 
from the remotest region of the 
country. His seamless zeal has 
helped the Company to become 
a market leader in the country 
and one of the largest producer 
of moulded plastic furniture in 
the world. He is instrumental in 
launching the Company™s retail 
business of lifestyle furniture, 
furnishing and accessories under 
the brand name ‚@home™ and the 
Company™s foray into mattress 
business under the brand name 
‚Nilkamal Mattrezzz™.
Expertise
Terms and conditions of appointment 
or reappointment
The details are provided in the 
resolution at Item no. 3 of this notice.
The details are provided in the 
resolution at Item no. 5 of this 
notice.
Details of remuneration last drawn 
(FY 2020-2021)
Details of remuneration is provided in Report on Corporate Governance 
forming a part of Annual Report for the FY 2020-2021.
*
Directorships held in other public 
companies
***
Nilkamal Storage Systems Private 
Limited
***
Nilkamal Storage Systems 
Private Limited
**
Memberships/Chairmanships 
of Committees* in other public 
Companies.
None
None
Number of Board Meetings attended 
during ˜nancial year.
4
4
Relation with other Directors & Key 
Managerial Personnel (KMP) of the 
Company.
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh
 
is the son of 
 
Mr. Sharad V. Parekh
Mr. Manish V. Parekh
 
is the son 
of Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh and 
brother of Mr. Hiten V. Parekh.
No of shares held in the Company
2,201,704
1,515,563
Notice
13
* Directorships in Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Section 8 companies and their Committee 
memberships are excluded.
** Membership and Chairmanship of only Audit Committees and Stakeholders™ Relationship Committees have 
been included in the aforesaid table.
*** Includes Directorship in Nilkamal Storage Systems Private Limited (formerly known as Nilkamal Bito Storage 
Systems Private Limited), being deemed to be public limited Company since it is subsidiary of Nilkamal Limited.
Important notes to the shareholders:
 

Some important notes pertaining to dividend and shares of the shareholders are given below. The shareholders 
can access the same on the Company™s website at the below links:
1.
  
The details of dividend which has remained unpaid/ unclaimed for the past seven consecutive years can be 
viewed on the Company™s website at 
https://nilkamal.com/unclaimed-unpaid-dividend/
2.
  
The details of the members whose shares have been transferred to the IEPF authority is available on the 
Company™s website at 
https://nilkamal.com/shares-transferred-to-iepf-suspense-account/
3.
  
The details of the members whose shares are liable to be transferred to the IEPF authority 
is
 
available
 
on
 
the
 
Company™s
 
website
 
at
 
https://nilkamal.com/shares-transferred-to-iepf-suspense-account/
Notice
14
DIRECTORS™ REPORT
REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO THE SHAREHOLDERS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2021.
Dear Members,
Your Directors are pleased to present the 
35
th
 Annual Report
 and the Audited Statement of Accounts for the 
˜nancial year ended
 
March 31, 2021.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE:
The ˜nancial performance of the Company for the ˜nancial year ended
 
March 31, 2021 is summarised below:-
 (
`
 in Lakhs)
Particulars
2020-2021
2019-2020
Revenue and Other Income
1,90,250.69
2,09,236.12
Pro˜t before Depreciation, Amortisation and Tax
23,169.62
24,871.38
Less: Depreciation and Amortisation charges
9,266.65
 9,051.14
Pro˜t before Tax
13,902.97
 15,820.24
Less: Taxes
3,560.89
3,619.09
Pro˜t after Tax
10,342.08
 12,201.15
Add : Other Comprehensive Income
366.28
(162.78)
Total Comprehensive Income
10,708.36
 12,038.37
Opening balance in Retained Earnings
52,570.25
45,589.42
Amount available for appropriation
63,278.61
57,627.79
i) Interim Dividend
746.13
 2,238.38
ii) Final Dividend
 1,343.03
iii) Total Tax on Dividend
 663.87
Transfer to General Reserve
-
-
Closing balance in Retained Earnings
62,471.04
 52,570.25
Earnings Per Share (
`
)
69.31
 81.76
Cash Earnings Per Share (
`
)
131.40
 142.42
Book Value per Share (
`
)
705.78
 639.03
YEAR IN RETROSPECT
The outbreak of the COVID-19 virus and the ensuing lockdown imposed across the country affected business 
operations severely during the 1
st
 half of the Financial year, however the economy alongwith the business 
operations of the Company saw a bounce back during the second half of the FY 2020-2021. The Company 
after giving priority to the health and safety of its employees and workers was successful in overcoming all 
unprecedented challenges. The Company is thankful and acknowledges the contribution of its employees and 
workers to make it possible to run the business nearing to normalcy.
The Standalone Net Revenue from Operations for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2021 was 
` 
1888.03
 
crores, 
which decreased by 9.29 % as compared to 
` 
2081.47
 
crores for the previous Financial Year. The Pro˜t After Tax 
for the year stood at 
` 
103.42
 c
rores against 
`
122.01 crores in the previous Financial Year. The segment wise 
performance of the Company is detailed under the section Management Discussion and Analysis Report which 
forms part of this Annual Report.
RESERVES
There is no amount proposed to be transferred to Reserves out of pro˜ts of the ˜nancial year 2020 -21.
DIVIDEND
Your Directors declared interim dividend of 
`
 5/- (i.e. 50%) per share of 
`
 10/- each fully paid up during the 
˜nancial year under review. Your Directors are pleased to recommend a Final Dividend of 
`
 10/- (i.e. 100 %) per 
share of 
`
 10/- each for the Financial Year 2020-21. With the above, the total dividend recommended would be 
`
 15/- (i.e. 150%) per share of 
`
 10/-. The dividend, if approved at the 35
th
 Annual General Meeting (AGM), will 
be paid to those members whose names appear on the register of members of the company as of the end of the 
day on July 28, 2021.
Directors™ Report
15
The aforesaid dividend pay-out for year under review is in accordance with the Company™s policy on Dividend 
Distribution which is linked to long term growth objectives of your Company to be met by internal cash 
accruals. The Dividend Distribution Policy of the Company can be viewed on the Company™s website at the 
following
 
weblink: 
https://nilkamal.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/11/Dividend-Distribution-Policy.pdf
The total out˚ow on account of the interim dividend and the proposed ˜nal Dividend shall amounts to 
`
 
2,238.38 
lacs.
SHARE CAPITAL
The Company™s paid-up Equity Share Capital continues to stand at 
`
 14.92 crore as on March 31, 2021.
During the year, the Company has not issued any shares or convertible securities. The Company does not have 
any Scheme for issue of shares including sweat equity to the employees or Directors of the Company.
AMENDMENT TO ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
During the year under review, the Articles of Association of the Company were amended in its entirety as per the 
form speci˜ed in table F in Schedule I to the Companies Act, 2013.
MEETINGS
During the year, four Board meetings were convened and held in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and as per Secretarial Standards -1, the details of which are given in the Corporate Governance Report.
SCHEME OF AMALGAMATION OF NILKAMAL STORAGE SYSTEMS PRIVATE LIMITED WITH THE COMPANY
The Board of Directors of the Company has approved a Scheme of Amalgamation under Sections 230 to 232 
and other applicable provisions of the Act, between the Company, its shareholders and creditors, and Nilkamal 
Storage Systems Private Limited (NSSPL), its wholly owned subsidiary (the ﬁSchemeﬂ). The Company has ˜led a 
Scheme of Amalgamation between NSSPL and the Company (the ﬁSchemeﬂ) with the Hon™ble National Company 
Law Tribunal, Ahmedabad Bench for its approval.
AWARDS AND CERTIFICATIONS
Your Company has received the following awards/ certi˜cations during the year under review:
-
  
The Company was awarded the ﬁGreenguard Complianceﬂ by UK Certi˜cation & Inspection Ltd., for low 
emitting products and materials under the standards of the institute for its furniture & Mattresses business.
-
  
Company has obtained ISO-50001:2018, a transition from ISO-50001:2011 from TUV- SUD, Mumbai 
certi˜cation for all its units for Design & Manufacturing of Injection Moulded Crates, Furniture, Custom 
Moulding and Customised Plastics Fabrication and welding of Crates.
-
  
The Company has also received a certi˜cate for ﬁErgonomic Design and Performanceﬂ issued by All India 
Occupational Therapist Association, which certi˜es that the Of˜ce Furniture range of the Company is as per 
the Ergonomic standards and meets the performance evaluation criteria.
-
  
The Company was awarded as the ﬁOutstanding Winnerﬂ in the Platinum Category by Confederation of 
Indian Industry (CII) of quality for Customer Service.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
The Company is committed to Corporate Social Responsibility and strongly believes that the business objectives of 
the Company must be in congruence with the legitimate development needs of the society in which it operates.
Pursuant to the provisions of the Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act), your Company has constituted 
a CSR Committee to monitor the CSR activities of the Company. The Company™s CSR policy is placed on the 
Company™s website at 
https://nilkamal.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/CSR-Policy-1.pdf
Your Company has undertaken various CSR initiatives through its Implementing Agency viz. Nilkamal Foundation 
- a Section 8 Company or directly by contributing to NGO™s for various projects. The said activities were carried 
out in the areas of promotion of education & healthcare, rural development and women™s upliftment alongwith 
undertaking other activities in terms of Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013.
A report on CSR activities as required under Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility) Rules, 2014 
is annexed as ﬁAnnexure Aﬂ.
MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENTS
Material changes and commitments affecting the ˜nancial position of the Company between the end of the 
˜nancial year and date of this report are given below.
Directors™ Report
16
GLOBAL PANDEMIC Œ COVID-19
Due to outbreak of second wave of COVID-19 pandemic and consequent lockdown imposed by the various 
states to curb its wide spread, an economic disruption has been witnessed in India. There was an impact on the 
Company™s business during the month of May, 2021. The management is closely analyzing and monitoring the 
situation and getting adequately prepared to emerge stronger in the longer term.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
As required pursuant to the Regulation 34 (2) (f) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 your Company has prepared a Business Responsibility Report 
(BRR) for the ˜nancial year 2020-21, which forms part of this Annual Report. The said report is hosted on the 
Company™s website, which can be accessed at 
https://nilkamal.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/7.-BUSINESS-
RESPONSIBILITY-REPORT-2021-converted.pdf
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS REPORT
A separate section on corporate governance practices followed by the Company, together with a certi˜cate 
from the auditors con˜rming its compliance, forms a part of this Annual Report, as per Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. Further, as per Regulation 
34 (2) (e) read with Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, a Management Discussion and Analysis report also forms a part of this report.
CREDIT RATING
The Credit Ratings of the Company for all the debt instruments as on March 31, 2021 is as below: -
Bank Facilities
Rating
Long Term Bank Facilities
CARE AA; Stable
(Double A)
Short Term Bank Facilities
CARE A1+
(A One Plus)
Commercial Paper (CP)
$
(Craved out)
CARE A1+
(A One Plus)
 $
 craved out of the sanctioned working capital limits of the Company.
SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES
During the year under review, your Company has four direct subsidiaries: Nilkamal Foundation in India, Nilkamal 
Storage Systems Private Limited in India, Nilkamal Eswaran Plastics Private Limited at Sri Lanka and Nilkamal Crates 
and Bins Œ FZE at UAE and one step-down subsidiary: Nilkamal Eswaran Marketing Private Limited at Sri Lanka; 
and one Joint Venture Companies which is Cambro Nilkamal Private Limited, which is the Indo-US Joint Venture.
There has been no material change in the nature of business of the said companies.
During the year under review, the Company™s subsidiaries as well as Joint Venture Company has exhibited a 
subdued performance due to the ongoing Covid 19 Pandemic worldwide. Further, Nilkamal Foundation Œ a 
Section 8 Company - is the Company™s Implementing Agency for undertaking the CSR activities of the Company, 
which has contributed towards various institutions/ projects for the said purpose.
In terms of proviso to sub section (3) of Section 129 of the Act, the salient features of the ˜nancial statement of 
the subsidiaries is set out in the prescribed form AOC-1, which forms part of the Annual Report.
In accordance with third proviso of Section 136(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, the Annual Report of the Company, 
containing therein its standalone and the consolidated ˜nancial statements has been placed on the website of 
the Company, 
www.nilkamal.com
. Further, as per fourth proviso of the said section, audited annual accounts of 
each of the subsidiary companies have also been placed on the website of the Company, 
www.nilkamal.com
.
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR INVESTMENTS
The particulars of loans, guarantees and investments as per Section 186 of the Act by the Company, have been 
disclosed in the ˜nancial statements. During the year under review, your Company did not give any other loans 
or guarantees, provide any security or make any investments as covered under Section 186 of the Companies Act, 
2013, other than as disclosed above.
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION POLICY OF THE COMPANY
The Board has, on the recommendation of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee framed a policy 
relating to 
remuneration of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, Senior Management Personnel and other 
employees, alongwith the criteria for appointment and removal of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel 
Directors™ Report
17
and Senior Management Personnel of the Company
. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is fully 
empowered to determine /approve and revise, subject to necessary approvals, the remuneration of managerial 
personnel, after taking into account the ˜nancial position of the Company, trends in the industry, quali˜cations, 
experience, past performance and past remuneration, etc. The Non-Executive Directors are paid sitting fees for 
every meeting of the Board and its Committees attended by them. The Board has also formulated and adopted 
the policy on the ﬁSuccession policy of Directorsﬂ The Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the Company is 
available on the website of the Company at 
https://nilkamal.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Nomination-and-
Remuneration-Policy_11052018.pdf
STATUTORY AUDITORS AND AUDITORS™ REPORT
Pursuant to provisions of Section 139 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014, M/s.
 
B
 
S
 
R & Co. LLP, having ICAI Registration No. 101248W/ W-100022 were appointed as the 
Statutory Auditors for a second term of ˜ve years to hold of˜ce from the conclusion of 32
nd
 Annual General 
Meeting up to the conclusion of the 37
th
 Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Statutory Auditor has con˜rmed their eligibility and submitted the certi˜cate in writing that they are not 
disquali˜ed to hold the of˜ce of the statutory auditor. Further in terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 the Auditors have con˜rmed that they 
hold a valid certi˜cate issued by the Peer Review Board of the ICAI.
The Auditors™ Report to the Members on the Accounts of the Company for the year ended March 31, 2021 is 
a part of the Annual Report. The said Audit Report does not contain any quali˜cation, reservation or adverse 
remark. During the year 2021, the Auditors had not reported any matter under Section 143(12) of the Act, 
therefore no detail is required to be disclosed under Section 134(3)(ca) of the Act.
COST AUDITOR
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies (Cost Records and 
Audit) Rules 2014, M/s.
 
V. B. Modi and Associates, Cost Accountants, were upon the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee, appointed as the Cost Auditors of the Company to carry out audit of the cost records of the 
Company for the ˜nancial year 2021-2022.
The resolution seeking rati˜cation of the remuneration to the said cost auditors for the ˜nancial year 2021-2022 
is set out in the Notice calling the 35
th
 Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Cost Auditors have certi˜ed that their appointment is within the limits of Section 141(3)(g) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and that they are not disquali˜ed from appointment within the meaning of the said Act.
SECRETARIAL AUDITORS
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013, and the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, Mr. Pratik M. Shah, Practising Company Secretary was 
appointed as the Secretarial Auditor of the Company to undertake the Secretarial Audit in the prescribed form 
MR- 3 for the ˜nancial year 2020-2021. The Secretarial Auditor™s report to the members is annexed to this report 
as ﬁAnnexure Bﬂ.
A Secretarial Compliance Report for the ˜nancial year ended March 31, 2021 on compliance of all applicable 
SEBI regulations and circulars/guidelines issued thereunder, was obtained from Mr. Pratik M. Shah, Practising 
Company Secretary, and submitted to both the stock exchanges.
During the year 2020, your Company has complied with the applicable Secretarial Standards issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
EXTRACT OF ANNUAL RETURN
The Extracts of the annual return in Form MGT 9 as required under Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Rule 12 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
 
is placed on the website of the Company 
at weblink Œ 
https://nilkamal.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/Form-MGT-9-%E2%80%93-31-03-2021.pdf
DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
The Board of your Company is duly constituted in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
Directors™ Report
18
At the 34
th
 Annual General Meeting of the company held on August 14, 2020:
1.
  
Mr. K.V. Venkataramanan (DIN: 00001647) was re-appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director for a 
second term of ˜ve years i.e. from August 14, 2020 to August 13, 2025.
2. 
  
Mr. Mihir H. Parekh (DIN: 07308466), Additional Director who holds of˜ce till the date of the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting, being eligible was appointment as Director of the Company. He was further appointed 
as a Whole-time Director, to be designated as Executive Director for a period of ˜ve years with effect from 
February 1, 2020 to January 31, 2025 of the Company.
3.
  
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh (DIN: 00037519), Chairman resigned from the position of Directorship & Chairmanship 
of the Company effective from the close of August 14, 2020. Further after taking into consideration the 
phenomenal contribution made by Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh towards the growth of the Company, he was 
appointed as the Chairman Emeritus of the Company, effective from August 15, 2020.
4.
  
Mr. Sharad V. Parekh (DIN: 00035747) was re-appointed as the Managing Director, for a period of ˜ve years, 
effective from 1st April, 2020 at the Board Meeting held on January 29, 2020. Subsequently at the Board 
meeting held on June 28, 2020 as a part of Board restructuring, he stepped down from the position of Managing 
Director of the Company effective from the close of August 14, 2020 and was appointed as a Non - Executive 
Chairman of the Company w.e.f. August 15, 2020.
5.
  
Mr. Hiten V. Parekh DIN: 00037550) was re-appointed as the Joint Managing Director, for a period of ˜ve 
years, effective from 1st April, 2020 at the Board Meeting held on January 29, 2020. Subsequently at the Board 
Meeting held on June 28, 2020 as a part of Board restructuring he was elevated to the position of Managing 
Director of the Company w.e.f. August 15, 2020 till the balance period of his term.
6.
  
Mr. Manish V. Parekh (DIN: 00037724) and Mr. Nayan S. Parekh (DIN: 00037597) were re-appointed as Executive 
Directors for a period of ˜ve years, effective from April 1, 2020.
Further, the Company has received declarations from all the Independent Directors stating that they meet the 
criteria of independence as given under Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the relevant provisions of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Regulations) Requirements, 2015. 
In the opinion of the Board, they ful˜l the condition for appointment/re-appointment as Independent Directors 
on the Board.
The Independent Directors of the Company have registered themselves with the Indian Institute of Corporate 
Affairs, Manesar (‚IICA™) as required under Rule 6 of Companies (Appointment and Quali˜cation of Directors) 
Rules, 2014.
Further, in accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 and the Articles of Association of the Company, 
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh (DIN: 00037597), Director of the Company, retires by rotation at the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting and being eligible has offered himself for re-election.
The required information of the Directors being appointed/re-appointed, pursuant to the provisions of the 
Listing Regulations, forms part of the Annual Report.
There was no change in the composition of the Board of Directors and the Key Managerial Personnel, except as 
stated above.
DIRECTORS™ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
To the best of their knowledge and belief and according to the information and explanations obtained by them, 
your Directors con˜rm the following statements in terms of Section 134(3) (c) of the Companies Act, 2013:
(a)
  
that in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable accounting standards have been followed and 
that no material departures have been made from the same;
(b)
  
that they have selected such accounting policies and applied them consistently and made judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company at the end of the ˜nancial year and of the pro˜t of the Company for that period;
(c)
  
that they have taken proper and suf˜cient care for the maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 for safeguarding the assets of the company and 
for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
(d)
 
that the annual ˜nancial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis;
(e)
  
that they have laid down internal ˜nancial controls to be followed by the Company and that such internal 
˜nancial controls are adequate and were operating effectively;
(f)
  
that they have devised proper systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and 
that such systems were adequate and operating effectively.
Directors™ Report
19
CASH FLOW AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As required under the regulation 34 2(c) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Regulations) Requirements, 2015, a cash ˚ow statement is part of the Annual Report 2020-2021. 
Further, the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the ˜nancial year 2020-2021 are prepared 
in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Act, Accounting Standards and as prescribed by Listing 
Regulations. The said Financial Statements have been prepared on the basis of the audited ˜nancial statements 
of the Company, its subsidiaries and joint venture companies as approved by their respective Boards of Directors.
ADEQUACY OF RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
The Board of Directors have adopted an Enterprise Risk Management Policy framed by the Company, which 
identi˜es the risk and lays down the risk minimization procedures. These procedures are periodically reviewed 
to ensure that executive management controls risk through means of a properly de˜ned framework.
VIGIL MECHANISM / WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY
The Company has in place a Whistle Blower Policy with a view to provide a mechanism for its Directors/ employees 
to approach the Chairman of the Audit Committee, in case of any grievances or concerns related to fraud and 
mismanagement, if any. The details of the said Policy are explained in the Corporate Governance Report and also 
posted on the website of the Company 
www.nilkamal.com
 .
DISCLOSURE AS PER SEXUAL HARASSMENT OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, PROHIBITION 
AND REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013
An Internal Complaints Committee has been constituted by the Company in line with the provisions of Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and the Rules thereunder 
to redress complaints received on sexual harassment. During the ˜nancial year under review, the Company has 
not received any complaints of sexual harassment.
Further the Company is committed to protect women against sexual harassment at work place. We ensure 
that our new employees are sensitized and educated in matters of Prevention of Sexual Harassment during 
their Induction. The Company conducted mass training and awareness programme for ﬁPrevention of Sexual 
Harassmentﬂ and covered around 400 employees to create awareness on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at 
workplace. The Company believes that the sense of security at the workplace will improve women™s participation 
in work, resulting in their economic empowerment and inclusive growth.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Your Company has formulated a Policy on materiality of dealing with related party transactions 
and the same has been hosted on its website at 
https://nilkamal.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/03/
Policyonmaterialityofanddealingwithrelatedparty_290120191.pdf
All the related party transactions are placed before the Audit Committee for their review and approval. Further, 
prior omnibus approval of the Audit Committee is obtained for related party transactions of repetitive nature 
and entered into in the ordinary course of business at an arms™ length basis.
Further, the Company has not entered into any material related party transaction during the year under review. 
Accordingly, the disclosure of related party transactions as required under Section 134(3)(h) of the Act, in Form 
AOC-2 is not applicable to your Company.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 134 (2) (p) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Board of Directors has undertaken 
an annual evaluation of its own performance, performance of its various Committees and individual Directors. 
The details of the said evaluations have been mentioned in the Report on Corporate Governance.
TRANSFER TO IEPF
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (ﬁThe Rulesﬂ), the Company had sent individual 
notices and also advertised in the newspapers seeking action from the shareholders who have not claimed their 
dividends for past seven consecutive years i.e for ˜nal dividend of the ˜nancial year ended 2012-2013, and 
thereafter, had transferred such unpaid or unclaimed dividends and corresponding 3,963 equity shares held by 
28 shareholders to the IEPF Authority on September 12, 2020.
Shareholders /claimants whose shares, unclaimed dividend, have been transferred to the aforestated IEPF 
Suspense Account or the Fund, as the case may be, may claim the shares or apply for refund by making an 
application to the IEPF Authority in Form IEPF-5 (available on 
http://www.iepf.gov.in
) along with requisite fee as 
decided by the IEPF Authority from time to time.
Directors™ Report
20
Further, the Company shall be transferring the unclaimed Dividend for the ˜nancial year 2013-2014 to the 
IEPF Account on or before
 
November 2, 2021. The Company shall also be transferring the shares, on which the 
dividend has remained unclaimed for a period of seven consecutive years, to the IEPF Account simultaneously on 
the same date. The Company has sent individual letters to the shareholders for claiming the said dividend and 
has also advertised the same in the newspapers in accordance to the Rules. Members are therefore requested to 
ensure that they claim the dividends referred above, before they are transferred to the said Fund.
Details of shares /shareholders in respect of which dividend has not been claimed, are provided on our website at 
https://nilkamal.com/shares-transferred-to-iepf-suspense-account/
.
 The shareholders are therefore encouraged 
to verify their records and claim their dividends of all the earlier seven years, if not claimed.
STATUTORY INFORMATION
The information on conservation of energy, technology absorption and foreign exchange earnings and outgo 
stipulated under Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014, is annexed herewith as ﬁAnnexure Cﬂ.
In terms of the provisions of Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rules 5(2) and 5(3) of the 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, a statement showing the 
names and other particulars of the employees drawing remuneration in excess of the limits set out in the said 
Rules forms a part of the Annual Report.
Further, the disclosures pertaining to remuneration and other details as required under Section 197(12) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014 also forms a part of the Annual Report.
However, having regard to the provisions of Section 136(1) read with its relevant provision of the Companies Act, 
2013, the Annual Report excluding the aforesaid information is being sent to the members of the Company. The 
said information is available for inspection at the Registered Of˜ce of the Company during working hours and 
any member interested in obtaining such information may write to the Company Secretary and the same will be 
furnished without any fee.
Your Company has not accepted Deposits from public falling within the ambit of Section 73 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 during the year under review.
SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY THE REGULATORS OR COURTS
There are no signi˜cant material orders passed by the Regulators / Courts which would impact the going concern 
status of the Company™s operations in future.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Your Directors wish to place on record their sincere appreciation for the encouragement and co-operation 
received by the Company from the Bankers, State Government Authorities, Local Authorities and its Employees 
during the year.
For and on behalf of the Board
Place: Mumbai 
 
Sharad V. Parekh
Date: June 03, 2021 
 
 
  
Chairman
Directors™ Report
21
ﬁANNEXURE Aﬂ
ANNUAL REPORT ON CSR ACTIVITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2020 - 21
1.
  
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company:-
 The Board of Directors of your Company had approved 
the CSR Policy in accordance with the provisions of Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013, inter-alia with 
the chief aim of providing education and healthcare facilities, maintaining environmental sustainability, 
rural development and woman™s upliftment. The CSR policy of the Company is available on the website 
of the Company 
www.nilkamal.com
 and the weblink of the same is 
https://nilkamal.com/wp-content/
uploads/2019/01/CSR-Policy-1.pdf
2.
 
 
Composition of CSR Committee:
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation /
Nature of 
Directorship
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
held during the year
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee attended 
during the year
1.
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy
Chairman
1
1
2.
Mr. Sharad V. Parekh
Member
1
1
3.
Mr. Hiten V. Parekh
Member
1
1
3.
Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR 
projects approved by the board are disclosed on the website of the Company.
:
www.nilkamal.com
4.
Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance 
of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report).
:
Not Applicable
5.
Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 
of the Companies (Corporate Social responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount 
required for set off for the ˜nancial year, if any
:
Not Applicable
Sl. 
No.
Financial Year
Amount available for set-off from 
preceding ˜nancial years (in Lacs)
Amount required to be set- off for 
the ˜nancial year, if any (in Lacs)
-
NIL
NIL
TOTAL
6.
Average net pro˜t of the company as per section 135(5).
:
16,390.51 Lacs
7.
(a)  Two percent of average net pro˜t of the company as per section 135(5)
(b) 
 

 
 

Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the 
previous ˜nancial years.
(c)  Amount required to be set off for the ˜nancial year,
(d)  Total CSR obligation for the ˜nancial year (7a+7b-7c)
:
:
:
:
327.81 Lacs
Nil
Nil
327.81 Lacs
8.
 
(a)
 
CSR amount spent or unspent for the ˜nancial year:
Amount Unspent (in Lacs)
Total Amount Spent 
for the Financial Year.
(in Lacs)
Total Amount transferred 
to Unspent CSR Account as 
per section 135(6).
Amount transferred to any fund speci˜ed 
under Schedule VII as per second proviso 
to section 135(5).
Amount
Date of 
transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of 
transfer
327.81
Not applicable
Not applicable
Directors™ Report
22
8.
 
(b)
 
Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects
 
for the ˜nancial year: 
Not Applicable
(1)
(2)
(3)
 (4)
(5)
 (6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
Sl. 
No.
Name 
of the 
Project
Item 
from the 
list of 
activities 
in 
Schedule 
VII to the 
Act.
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No)
Location of 
the project.
Project 
duration
Amount 
allocated 
for the 
project 
 
(in Lacs)
Amount 
spent 
in the 
current 
˜nancial 
Year  (in 
Lacs)
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account for 
the project as 
per Section 
135(6) (in 
Lacs)
Mode of 
Implementation-
Direct (Yes/No)
Mode of 
Implementation 
Œ Through 
Implementing 
Agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
number
TOTAL
 
(c)
 
Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects
 
for the ˜nancial year:
(1)
(2)
(3)
 (4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Sl.
No.
Name of the Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
schedule VII 
to the Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/ 
No)
Location of the project.
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(in Lacs)
Mode of 
implementation -
Direct (Yes/No)
Mode of implementation 
Œ Through implementing 
agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
registration 
number
1.
Providing health care and 
medicines at affordable 
cost, providing of drinking 
water, food, sanitizers, mask, 
shields and umbrellas to 
those on guard against the 
evil of coronavirus, Providing 
isolation beds, freedom 
cabinet, mattress and pillows, 
hospital bedsheets, blankets, 
bath towel for Covid-19.
(i)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
3.50
No
Nilkamal 
Foundation
-
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
5.00
No
Nilkamal 
Foundation
-
Yes
New Delhi
New Delhi
22.25
Yes
-
-
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
0.50
Yes
-
-
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
2.46
Yes
-
-
2.
Project for reconstruction and 
modernisation of Government 
School.
(i)
Yes
Gujarat
Bhavnagar
122.27
No
Nilkamal 
Foundation
-
3.
Promoting Education
Yes
Gujarat
Bhavnagar
0.88
No
Nilkamal 
Foundation
-
4.
Contribution for upliftment of 
women
(iii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Karjat
1.56
No
Nilkamal 
Foundation
-
5.
Contribution for Schedule VII 
activities
(i), (ii), 
(iii),(viii),(x)
Yes
Pan India
169.39
No
Nilkamal 
Foundation
-
TOTAL
327.81
d.
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads
:
Nil
e.
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable
:
Not Applicable
f.
Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e)
:
327.81 Lacs
 
g.
 
 Excess amount for set off, if any
Sl. No.
Particular
Amount (in Lacs)
(i)
Two percent of average net pro˜t of the company as per section 135(5)
327.81 Lacs
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
327.81 Lacs
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the ˜nancial year [(ii)-(i)]
Nil
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or
activities of the previous ˜nancial years, if any
Nil
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding ˜nancial years [(iii)-(iv)]
Nil
Directors™ Report
23
8.
 
(b)
 
Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects
 
for the ˜nancial year: 
Not Applicable
(1)
(2)
(3)
 (4)
(5)
 (6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
Sl. 
No.
Name 
of the 
Project
Item 
from the 
list of 
activities 
in 
Schedule 
VII to the 
Act.
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No)
Location of 
the project.
Project 
duration
Amount 
allocated 
for the 
project 
 
(in Lacs)
Amount 
spent 
in the 
current 
˜nancial 
Year  (in 
Lacs)
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account for 
the project as 
per Section 
135(6) (in 
Lacs)
Mode of 
Implementation-
Direct (Yes/No)
Mode of 
Implementation 
Œ Through 
Implementing 
Agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
number
TOTAL
 
(c)
 
Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects
 
for the ˜nancial year:
(1)
(2)
(3)
 (4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Sl.
No.
Name of the Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
schedule VII 
to the Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/ 
No)
Location of the project.
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(in Lacs)
Mode of 
implementation -
Direct (Yes/No)
Mode of implementation 
Œ Through implementing 
agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
registration 
number
1.
Providing health care and 
medicines at affordable 
cost, providing of drinking 
water, food, sanitizers, mask, 
shields and umbrellas to 
those on guard against the 
evil of coronavirus, Providing 
isolation beds, freedom 
cabinet, mattress and pillows, 
hospital bedsheets, blankets, 
bath towel for Covid-19.
(i)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
3.50
No
Nilkamal 
Foundation
-
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
5.00
No
Nilkamal 
Foundation
-
Yes
New Delhi
New Delhi
22.25
Yes
-
-
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
0.50
Yes
-
-
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
2.46
Yes
-
-
2.
Project for reconstruction and 
modernisation of Government 
School.
(i)
Yes
Gujarat
Bhavnagar
122.27
No
Nilkamal 
Foundation
-
3.
Promoting Education
Yes
Gujarat
Bhavnagar
0.88
No
Nilkamal 
Foundation
-
4.
Contribution for upliftment of 
women
(iii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Karjat
1.56
No
Nilkamal 
Foundation
-
5.
Contribution for Schedule VII 
activities
(i), (ii), 
(iii),(viii),(x)
Yes
Pan India
169.39
No
Nilkamal 
Foundation
-
TOTAL
327.81
d.
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads
:
Nil
e.
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable
:
Not Applicable
f.
Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e)
:
327.81 Lacs
 
g.
 
 Excess amount for set off, if any
Sl. No.
Particular
Amount (in Lacs)
(i)
Two percent of average net pro˜t of the company as per section 135(5)
327.81 Lacs
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
327.81 Lacs
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the ˜nancial year [(ii)-(i)]
Nil
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or
activities of the previous ˜nancial years, if any
Nil
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding ˜nancial years [(iii)-(iv)]
Nil
9.
 
(a)
 
Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three ˜nancial years: 
NOT APPLICABLE
Sl.
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year
Amount 
transferred
 
to 
Unspent
 
CSR 
Account under 
section 135 (6) 
(in Lacs)
Amount 
spent in
 
the
reporting 
Financial 
Year (in Lacs)
Amount transferred to any fund 
speci˜ed under Schedule VII as 
per section 135(6), if any.
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
˜nancial 
years (in Lacs)
Name of 
the Fund
Amount 
(in Lacs)
Date of 
transfer
NIL
NIL
TOTAL
 
(b)
 
Details of CSR amount spent in the ˜nancial year for ongoing projects
 
of the preceding ˜nancial year(s):
 (1)
(2)
 (3)
 (4)
 (5)
 (6)
 (7)
 (8)
 (9)
Sl.
No.
Project 
ID.
Name of the 
Project
Financial 
Year in
which the 
project was 
commenced
Project 
duration
Total 
amount 
allocated 
for the 
project 
(in Lacs)
Amount 
spent on 
the project 
in the 
reporting 
Financial 
Year (in Lacs)
Cumulative 
amount 
spent at 
the end of 
reporting 
Financial 
Year (in Lacs)
Status of 
the project-
Completed
/Ongoing
1.
-
Project for 
reconstruction 
and 
modernisation 
of Government 
School at 
Bhavnagar.
FY 2018
3
625.00
122.27
604.72
Completed
TOTAL
122.27
10.
In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or 
acquired through CSR spent in the ˜nancial year. 
(asset-wise details). Not Applicable 
:
(a)
 
Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset(s).
:
(b)
 
Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset.
:
(c) 
  
Details of the entity or public authority or bene˜ciary under whose name 
such capital asset is registered, their address etc.
:
(d) 
  
Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including complete 
address and location of the capital asset).
:
11.
Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the 
average net pro˜t as per section 135(5).
:
Hiten V. Parekh
Managing Director
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy
Chairman CSR Committee
   Place: Mumbai 
   Date: June 03, 2021
Directors™ Report
24
ﬁANNEXURE Bﬂ
Secretarial Audit Report
For the Financial year ended 31
st 
March, 2021
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
The Members,
Nilkamal Limited
Considering the situation due to pandemic ﬁCOVID 2019ﬂ and lockdown being declared during the audit period 
within the State of Maharashtra at Mumbai, the process of audit has been modi˜ed. Books, documents, records, 
e-forms (forms) and returns, registers, minutes were not veri˜ed physically and the same were made available in 
electronic mode and were veri˜ed on the bases of the representations received and made by the management 
of the Company, its of˜cers, agents and authorised representatives for its accuracy and authenticity. Accordingly, 
wherever, in the report, words such as ﬁexaminedﬂ, ﬁreviewﬂ, ﬁveri˜cationﬂ are being stated it should be 
construed as examination, review, veri˜cation of electronic records. This report should be read along with the 
Annexure
 attached to this report.
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence 
to good corporate practices by 
Nilkamal Limited
 (hereinafter called 
ﬁthe Companyﬂ
). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us the most reasonable bases for evaluating the corporate conducts / 
statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
On the bases of our review and veri˜cation of the Company™s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns 
˜led and other records maintained by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its 
of˜cers, agents and authorised representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that 
in our opinion, the Company has, during the ˜nancial year ended 31
st
 March, 2021, complied with the statutory 
provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board processes and compliance mechanism 
in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
1.
  
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns ˜led and other records maintained 
by the Company for the ˜nancial year ended on 31
st 
March, 2021, according to the provisions of:
 
i.
 
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made thereunder;
 
ii.
 
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‚SCRA™) and the rules made thereunder;
 
iii.
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018;
 
iv.
  
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent 
applicable;
 
v.
  
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (‚SEBI Act™):-
  
a)
  
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 read 
with amendments made thereunder;
  
b)
  
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
  
c)
  
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993;
  
d)
  
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirement) 
Regulations, 2015;
2.
  
Provisions of the following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India Act, 1992 (‚SEBI Act™) were not applicable to the Company during the ˜nancial year under report:-
 
i.
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Bene˜ts) Regulations, 2014;
 
ii.
  
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
 
iii.
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009;
 
iv.
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy Back of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
 
v.
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008.
3.
 
The Company has identi˜ed the following laws as speci˜cally applicable to the Company:
 
a)
 
The Factories Act, 1948;
 
b)
 
The Employees Compensation Act, 1923;
 
c)
 
The Goods and Service Tax Act, 2017;
Directors™ Report
25
 
d)
 
The Employees State Insurance Act, 1948;
 
e)
 
The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974;
 
f)
 
The Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1981;
 
g)
 
Labour Welfare Act of respective States;
 
h)
 
Legal Metrology Act, 2009.
We further report that:
1.
  
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-
Executive Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors 
that took place during the year under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
2.
  
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda 
were sent at least seven days in advance, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clari˜cations on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
3.
  
Company has duly complied with the Secretarial Standards as issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India.
4.
  
Company is regular in compliance with the ˜ling of e-forms with the of˜ce of Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
as required pursuant to the provisions of The Companies Act, 2013 and Rules framed thereunder.
5.
 
Majority decisions are carried through which are captured and recorded as part of the minutes.
6.
  
There are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of 
the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
PRATIK M. SHAH
Company Secretaries
FCS No.: 7431; CP No.: 7401
Place: Mumbai
 
PU No. 755/2020
Date:  May 25, 2021
 
UDIN: F007431C000367417
ANNEXURE TO SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT ISSUED FOR FY 2020-21
The Members
Nilkamal Limited
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.
  
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the company. Our responsibility 
is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.
  
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance 
about the correctness of the contents of the Secretarial records. The veri˜cation was done on test basis to 
ensure that correct facts are re˚ected in secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we 
followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.
  
We have not veri˜ed the correctness and appropriateness of ˜nancial records and Books of Accounts of the 
company.
4.
  
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules 
and regulations and happening of events etc.
5.
  
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the 
responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the veri˜cation of procedures on test basis.
6.
  
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the company nor of the 
ef˜cacy or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the company.
PRATIK M. SHAH
Company Secretaries
FCS No.: 7431; CP No.: 7401
Place: Mumbai
 
PU No. 755/2020
Date:  May 25, 2021
 
UDIN: F007431C000367417
Directors™ Report
26
ﬁANNEXURE Cﬂ
Statement pursuant to Section 134(3)(m) of the Act read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules,2014, forming part of the Directors™ Report.
A.
 
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY.
  
During the year under review, your Company had transited from ISO50001:2011 to the latest ISO50001:2018 
version, certi˜ed by TUV-SUD Germany for upgrading its Energy Management Systems by identifying its 
signi˜cant Risks & Opportunities based on international norms and standards of governance.
  
The Group™s use of Energy from Renewable Sources to the total energy consumed has increased from 19% in 
2019-20 to 24% in 2020-21. This has resulted in signi˜cant reduction of carbon emission by 14% in the year 
under review as compared to last year.
  
The Company's Corporate Energy Conservation Cell reporting directly to the Operational Head have initiated 
various time bound Projects to ensure its successful implementation as below:-
 
1.
  
The 4100 KWp Rooftop Solar Project, generated substantial units during the year, which has helped in 
reducing our yearly Carbon Emission which is in line with our Management's sustained commitment to 
Energy and Environment Protection.
 
2.
  
The on-going partnership with BETA Wind Energy Farms Private Limited was once again optimized for 
its unit's consumption leading to lower billing by TNEB thereby reducing the Carbon Emission.
 
3.
  
Reduction in speci˜c energy consumption at all our locations helped to reduce Carbon Emission for the 
current ˜nancial year by the projects mentioned herewith-
  
a)
  
Replacing Hydro Motor with Servo Motor in Injection Molding machine resulting in saving of 0.19 
Units/kg.
  
b)
  
Cooling Tower Unit consumption reduced by drive frequency re-set & Pump Flow control resulting in 
saving of 1.8 Lakhs units per year.
  
c)
 
Sharing of best practices at each plant for easy replication of applicable ideas.
The ongoing sustained focus on Energy conservation and monitoring, is a way of life throughout your company 
with daily display of energy consumption leading to identi˜cation of opportunities to Reduce, Recycle and Re-use 
natural resources and reduction in carbon foot prints across all units for continued sustenance of Environment 
protection and Resources as committed by Management.
Your Company has been successfully been recerti˜ed for ISO9001:2015 Quality Management Systems, 
ISO14001:2015 Environment Management Systems and ISO45001:2018 Occupational Health & Safety systems by 
TUV-SUD Germany.
B.
 
TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION.
 
Disclosure of particulars in Form B, with respect to Technology Absorption:
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R & D):
  
Your Company strives to make constant investments towards improvement in its existing product lines and 
undertakes development efforts in that area. Such efforts shall help your Company to achieve the set targets 
in a better manner, within less than required time together with providing improved quality products. 
This has also enhanced the development capabilities of the Company. Your Company has incurred 
`
 412.29 
lacs, i.e. 0.22% of total turnover of the Company, towards recurring R
 
and D expenditure. There was no 
expenditure of capital nature towards the same.
 
TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION, ADAPTATION AND INNOVATION
 
1.
 
Efforts, in brief, made towards technology absorption, adaptation and innovation.
  
1.
 
Developed a Hot Plate welding special machine for injection moulded traf˜c cones.
  
2.
 
Developed 3-Axis Robot machines for ultrasonic welding of crates for E-commerce industry.
  
3.
  
Developed Ultrasonic welding process with special ˜xtures for assembly of Bail arms-with-metal strips.
  
4.
  
Made metal 3D printed conformal cooling gate inserts for ef˜cient plastic material ˚ow inside 
the mould cavity in milk crate moulds and thus achieving cycle time reduction and solving quality 
problems like drooling.
Directors™ Report
27
  
5.
  
Using rapid prototyping technologies like SLA, Multi-Jet to make samples for testing and real-life 
˜eld evaluation before making ˜nal design and mould manufacturing.
  
6.
  
Developed various welding & other process ˜xtures in-house, in the absence of external sources 
during ﬁUnlockﬂ periods, for new product developments at various plants, especially at Metal Line 
and Mattress Units.
  
7.
  
Developed special purpose Creasing cum Bending machine in-house, Window Flap cutting machine 
and Slot Cutting machine for post-extrusion process of Bubble-Guard sheets to make various value-
added products at Hosur plant.
  
8.
  
Retro˜tting of Conventional Injection Molding machines with latest imported Servo motor driven 
technology resulted in productivity improvement & cost saving.
 
2.
 
Bene˜ts derived as a result of the above efforts.



Discharge philosophy.





 
3.
 
The Company has not imported any technology or process know-how.
  
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO.
  
Total Foreign Exchange used and earned
(
 `
 in lakhs)
Particulars
2020-2021
2019-2020
Foreign Exchange Earned
4,873
5,489
Foreign Exchange Used
21,442
31,733
For and on behalf of the Board
Place: Mumbai 
     
 Sharad V. Parekh
Date: June 03, 2021 
   
 
  
 Chairman
Directors™ Report
28
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
SECTION A: GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company:
L25209DN1985PLC000162
2
Name of the Company:
Nilkamal Limited
3
Registered address:
Survey No. 354/2 and 354/3,
Near Rakholi Bridge,
Silvassa-Khanvel Road, Vasona, Silvassa Œ 396 230,
Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli.
4
Website:
www.nilkamal.com
5
E-mail id:
investor@nilkamal.com
6
Financial year reported:
April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021
7
Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial 
activity code-wise):
As per National Industrial Classi˜cation Œ Ministry of 
Statistics and Programme Implementation
i)
  
222-Manufacture of plastic products
ii)
  
471-retail sales in non-specialized stores
iii)
  
310-manufacture of mattresses and pillows
8
List three key products/services that the Company 
manufactures /provides (as in balance sheet):
1] Plastic moulded products 2] Mattresses
3] Bubble Guard
9
Total number of locations where business activity is 
undertaken by the Company:
a)
  
Number of International Locations (Provide 
details of major 5):
None
b)
  
Number of National Locations:
9 plants, 18 @home stores, 9 @ home franchise 
stores and 15 Nilkamal home Ideas stores and 
various regional and marketing of˜ces alongwith 
warehouses across the country.
10
Markets served by the Company Œ Local/State/
National/International:-
Pan India alongwith exports to some of the 
international countries.
SECTION B: FINANCIAL DETAILS OF THE COMPANY
1
Paid up Capital (INR):
1,492.25 Lacs
2
Total Turnover (INR):
1,88,802.58 Lacs
3
Total pro˜t after taxes (INR):
10,342.08 Lacs
4
Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) as percentage of pro˜t after tax (%):
327.81Lacs (2%)
5
List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has 
been incurred
Education, Rural Development, Health care, 
Hygiene and Sanitation.
SECTION C: OTHER DETAILS
1
Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/ 
Companies?
Yes the Company has 5 (˜ve) subsidiaries.
2
Do the Subsidiary Company/ Companies participate in 
the BR Initiatives of the parent Company? If yes, then 
indicate the number of such subsidiary company(s)
The Company encourages its subsidiaries to 
undertake BR initiatives to the fullest extent 
in their operations. The Company™s three 
subsidiaries are incorporated outside India, they 
comply with the local statutory requirements of 
their respective countries.
3
Do any other entity/ entities, (e.g. suppliers, distributors 
etc.) that the Company does business with, participate 
in the BR initiatives of the Company? If yes, then 
indicate the percentage of such entity/entities? [Less 
than 30%, 30-60%, More than 60%]
The Company encourages the stakeholders 
associated with it to adopt sustainable business 
practices.
SECTION D: BR INFORMATION
1.
 
De
ta
i
l
s 
o
f
 
Di
r
e
c
t
o
r/ 
D
i
r
e
ct
o
rs 
r
e
s
p
o
n
sible
 
f
o
r 
B
R:
 
a)
 
DIN: 00037550
  
Name: Mr. Hiten V. Parekh
  
Designation: Managing Director
Business Responsibility Report
29
 
b)
 
De
ta
i
l
s 
o
f
 
t
h
e
 
B
R 
h
ea
d:
  
1.
 
DIN Number (if applicable): 00037550
  
2.
 
Name: Mr. Hiten V. Parekh
  
3.
 
Designation: Managing Director
  
4.
 
Telephone number: 022 4235 8651
  
5.
 
E-mail ID: 
brr@nilkamal.com
2.
 
Pr
i
n
cipl
e
-
w
i
s
e
 
(
a
s
 
pe
r
 
N
VG
s
)
 
B
R
 
Po
l
i
c
y
/p
o
l
i
c
i
e
s
  
The National Voluntary Guidelines (NVGs) on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business 
released by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs has adopted nine areas of Business Responsibility. These brie˚y 
are as under:
 
P1:
 
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability.
 
P2:
  
Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout 
their life cycle.
 
P3:
 
Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees.
 
P4:
  
Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those 
who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized.
 
P5:
 
Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
 
P6:
 
Businesses should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment.
 
P7:
  
Businesses, when engaged in in˚uencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible 
manner.
 
P8:
 
Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development.
 
P9:
  
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible 
manner.
 
Details of compliance (Reply in Y/N)
No.
Questions
P
1
P
2
P
3
P
4
P
5
P
6
P
7
P
8
P
9
1
Do you have a policy/ policies for:
 Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Refer 
note2.
Y
Refer 
note 3.
2
Has the policy being formulated 
in consultation with the relevant 
stakeholders?
Yes
3
Does the policy conform to any 
national / international standards? If 
yes, specify? (50 words)
Yes. The policies con˜rm with the standards laid in the National 
Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic 
Responsibilities of Business issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, Government of India and also of the requirements of 
the Companies Act, 2013, BIFMA Level 3 and Green-guard 
certi˜cations from UK cert, ISO 45001:2018, International 
Standards namely ISO 9001 - 2015, ISO 14001 -2015, ISO 50001- 
2018 etc.
4
Has the policy being approved by the 
Board? Is yes, has it been signed by 
MD/ owner/ CEO/ appropriate Board 
Director?
The Policies which are statutorily required to be adopted by 
the Board, have been approved by them, while the others 
policies are formulated and implemented by the Human 
resources department of the Company.
5
Does the Company have a speci˜ed 
committee of the Board/ Director/ 
Of˜cial to oversee the implementation 
of the policy?
The Company is having a Committee for CSR as well as Anti 
Sexual Harassment of Women at workplace and dedicated 
Ethic Counselors for Whistle Blower Policy.
For other policies, the Company has put in place adequate 
process and resources for its implementation.
6
Indicate the link for the policy to be 
viewed online?
Please refer Note 4.
7
Has the policy been formally 
communicated to all relevant internal 
and external stakeholders?
Yes - on the website of the Company.
8
Does the Company have in-house 
structure to implement the policy/ 
policies.
Yes
Business Responsibility Report
30
9
Does the Company have a grievance 
redressal mechanism related to the 
policy/ policies to address stakeholders™ 
grievances related to the policy/ 
policies?
Yes
10
Has the Company carried out 
independent audit/ evaluation of the 
working of this policy by an internal or 
external agency?
Yes
 
Note1: 
 

The replies to the questions at serial no. 2 to 10 as mentioned above are applicable to all the Principles 
except the Principles 7 and 9.
 
Note 2: 
 

With respect to the Principle 7, the Company is a member of various chambers and associations 
through which it has been advocating from time to time in a responsible manner, and hence a 
speci˜c policy for the same has not been adopted.
 
Note 3: 
 

With respect to the Principle 9, the Company has a systematic process of assessing customer needs, 
ful˜lling them with innovative products and services and providing value to them in a responsible 
manner.
 
Note 4: 
 

The Company™s CSR Policy, Code of Business Ethics, Code of Conduct, Whistle Blower Policy and 
Anti-Sexual Harassment Policy, Environment Policy and Health and Safety Policy are available on the 
Company™s website at the following link: 
https://nilkamal.com/corporate-governance/
3.
 
Go
v
e
r
nan
c
e
 r
e
l
ate
d
 
t
o
 
B
R:
a)
Indicate the frequency with which the Board of 
Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO to assess 
the BR performance of the Company. Within 3 
months, 3-6 months, annually, more than 1 year
The Business Responsibility performance of 
the Company shall be assessed annually.
b)
Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability 
Report? What is the hyperlink for viewing this 
report? How frequently it is published?
Yes, the Company uploads Business Responsibility 
Report
 annually, which is available at 
https://
nilkamal.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/7.-
BUSINESS-RESPONSIBILITY-REPORT-2021-
converted.pdf
SECTION E: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE
Principle 1
1
Does the policy relating to ethics, 
bribery and corruption cover only 
the Company? Yes / No. Does it 
extend to the Group/ Joint Ventures/ 
Suppliers/ Contractors/ NGOs / 
Others?
As one of the leading plastics processor in India and having diversi˜ed 
product portfolio, the Company™s reputation is most important. 
How we conduct ourselves on a day to day basis with our customers, 
shareholders, competitors, contactors, neighboring communities, 
suppliers and distributor forms the basis of reputation of the Company 
as an ethical Company. We as a Company is committed to the philosophy 
of good corporate governance practices, thereby conducting business 
in a responsible manner. To achieve the said objective, the Company has 
certain policies namely the Code of Business Ethics for its employees, 
the Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Managerial Personnel, 
The Whistle Blower Policy, Insider Trading Prohibition Code containing 
(a) Code of Conduct to regulate, monitor and report Trading by 
designated persons in Securities of the Company. (b) Policy and 
procedure for inquiry in case of leak/suspected leak of Unpublished 
Price Sensitive Information. (c) Code of Practices and procedure for fair 
Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information and the same 
are available on the Company™s website at 
www.nilkamal.com
. The 
Company also has in place an Anti-Sexual Harassment Policy which 
institutes speci˜c mechanisms to deal with workplace harassment.
The Company has also assigned dedicated email ids for the stakeholders 
to raise their concerns under the above policies.
Further, the Company also persuades its Indian Subsidiary, Joint 
venture, suppliers, contractors and others to follow the said policies, to 
the extent applicable to them.
Business Responsibility Report
31
2
How many stakeholder complaints 
have been received in the past 
˜nancial year and what percentage 
was satisfactorily resolved by the 
management? If so, provide details 
thereof, in about 50 words or so.
The Company has in place a mechanisms for receiving and dealing 
with complaints from different stakeholders™. The Company responds 
to the complaints within a time bound manner.
During the year, Company received 4 complaints from shareholders 
which were disposed-off within due time and there were no 
complaints which had remained unresolved at the end of the year. 
Further the Company has not received any complaints under the 
Whistle Blower Policy of the Company.
Principle 2
1
List up to 3 of your products 
or services whose design has 
incorporated social or environmental 
concerns, risks and/or opportunities
The Company believes in developing products which are ef˜cient 
and environment friendly and several steps have been taken in this 
direction. It is committed to offer quality standards for all range of 
products which are eco-friendly, safe and energy ef˜cient products, 
thus incorporating social and environmental concerns. Some of the 
products introduced during the year 2020-21, are as below:
i)
  
The Modular Furniture Unit, BG Unit and Material Handling Unit 
had launched following new products in FY 202-21:
 
1.
 
Quick Covid Bed
 
2.
 
Nilkamal Isolation Bed
 
3.
 
Nilkamal Quarantine Covid Bed
ii)
  
Designed and developed Totes with detachable lid and ASRS 
features which are to be used as returnable packaging in rapidly 
developing e-commerce and home delivery markets. This will 
reduce the use of corrugated/cardboard boxes currently used 
for packaging which in turn reduce use of natural resource i.e. 
wood.
iii)
  
Designed and developed plastic Divider/Separator and supports 
used in Racking system of Warehouses of FMCG and e-commerce 
industry. These products were originally made from metal which 
were causing injury to operators.
iv)
  
Developed 1.5 ltr capacity Freeze free Vaccine carrier box for 
local storage and vaccination program where some special 
vaccines are required to be kept between 2 to 8°C temperature. 
A chemical-free PCM technology is used.
v)
  
Manufacturing and supplying a variety of Vaccine carriers and 
cold boxes for corona vaccine storage, local transportation and 
administration to patients.
vi)
  
We are taking back old and used crates from reputed customer. 
These old crates are recycled and reused in appropriate 
percentage to produce new crates with properties and 
speci˜cations as per customer requirement.
2
For each such product, provide 
the following details in respect of 
resource use (energy, water, raw 
material etc.) per unit of product 
(optional):
(a)
  
Reduction during sourcing/
production/ distribution 
achieved since the previous 
year throughout the value 
chain?
(b)
  
Reduction during usage by 
consumers (energy, water) 
has been achieved since the 
previous year?
The Company™s Policies on Environment & Energy has ensured an 
organization wide sustained culture to strive towards pollution 
prevention and for continuous improvement to Reduce, Recycle 
and Re-use. It enables its employees to strive towards prevention of 
pollution and for continuous conservation of valuable resources. As a 
measure of the same, the Company has successfully implemented new 
technology for mold cooling so as to reduce cycle time and improve 
product quality.
Energy Consumption in 2020-21 has continued to be maintained at 
0.68 units per kilo of production which is the same as in 2019-20. 
However, the overall dependence on conventional electrical Energy 
from Electricity Boards had reduced by 5% in 2020-21 as compared to 
2019-20, which is supplemented by Energy from renewable sources.
The Company has been using partly the Energy from Renewable 
sources i.e. Solar at 6 of its Plants and Wind at one Plant.
The Company™s sustained commitment towards Zero water discharge 
has ensured that waste water, generated in all the factories, are 
recycled and reused for Gardening and toilet ˚ushing.
Business Responsibility Report
32
3
Does the Company have procedures 
in place for sustainable sourcing 
(including transportation)?
Yes.
The Company encourages the HUB and Spoke Policy resulting in 
sustainable sourcing from many local based suppliers, giving them 
opportunity to supply raw materials and packing materials.
The Company has strategically designed its distribution network 
in order to serve its distributors and the dealers thereof in the least 
possible transportation time.
In packing material, recycling codes, thickness in microns, suppliers 
name & address, recycling code and buyback prices are printed in line 
with the statutory requirements.
Further all of our products can be used multiple times there by 
increasing its sustainability.
a)
  
If yes, what percentage of your 
inputs was sourced sustainably? 
Also, provide details thereof, in 
about 50 words or so
4
Has the company taken any steps 
to procure goods and services from 
local & small producers, including 
communities surrounding their place 
of work?
a)
  
If yes, what steps have been 
taken to improve their capacity 
and capability of local and small 
vendors?
Yes, the Company has registered many small scale units under MSME 
as its suppliers.
The Company gives preference to local suppliers/producers especially 
by giving to local persons work on job work basis.
Apart from providing resources, the Company™s representatives also 
give on-the-job training with proper QMS practices, thus enabling 
the suppliers to get ISO-9001 certi˜cation, to ensure quality and 
productivity. The Company makes sure that they utilize their 
manufacturing capacity with preferred vendor program.
5
Does the Company have a 
mechanism to recycle products and 
waste? If yes, what is the percentage 
of recycling of products and waste 
(separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). 
Also, provide details thereof, in 
about 50 words or so
Yes, the Company has in-house grinders to grind and re-use its own 
process wastes. Also, it has installed extruder / pelletizing machine 
for making granules. The Company™s complete recycling line, grinds 
and cleans used crates/pallets from its customers, and the said 
recycled material is then used to produce new crates and pallets for 
customers.
Thus, wastage management is highly focused and monitored 
through corporate management and recycling the product by using 
good waste management process.
Principle 3
1
Please indicate the Total number of 
employees
2,939
2
Please indicate the Number of 
permanent women employees
223
3
Please indicate the Number 
of permanent employees with 
disabilities
4
4
Do you have an employee association 
that is recognized by management
No
5
What percentage of your permanent 
employees is members of this 
recognized employee association?
Not Applicable
6
Please indicate the number of 
complaints relating to child labour, 
forced labour, involuntary labour, 
sexual harassment in the last 
˜nancial year and pending, as on 
the 
end of the ˜nancial year
The Company does not employ either on its own or through labour 
contractor any child labour or forced labour. Further, the Company 
has not received any complaints relating to involuntary labour or 
sexual harassment.
No.
Category
No. of complaints ˜led 
during the ˜nancial year
No. of complaints pending as 
on end of the ˜nancial year
i)
Child labour/forced
labour/involuntary labour
Nil
N.A
ii)
Sexual harassment
Nil
N.A
iii)
Discriminatory employment
Nil
N.A
Business Responsibility Report
33
7
What percentage of your under 
mentioned employees were given 
safety & skill up- gradation training 
in the last year?
a)
 
Permanent Employees
b)
 
Permanent Women Employees
c)
  
Casual/Temporary/Contractual 
Employees
d)
 
Employees with Disabilities
The employees are the key asset to the Company™s growth. And 
hence their safety is of utmost priority to the Company.
The Company has in place a Health and Safety Policy, which prioritizes 
the health and safety of all persons working within the Company 
premises.
 
The Company is committed to providing the employees a 
safe and healthy work Environment. The Company provides health, 
safety & skill training on periodical basis.
Further, the Company also imparts training on a regular basis to its 
retail workforce for enhancement of their skills.
Principle 4
1
Has the Company mapped its 
internal and external stakeholders? 
Yes/No
Yes
2
Out of the above, has the Company 
identi˜ed the disadvantaged, 
vulnerable & marginalized 
stakeholders
Yes
3
Are there any special initiatives 
taken by the Company to engage 
with the disadvantaged, vulnerable 
and marginalized stakeholders. If so, 
provide details thereof, in about 50 
words or so
Yes
The Company is responsive towards all stakeholders. The Company tries 
to engage local workforce to the extent feasible for any new project or 
expansion at any of its existing location. The Company also undertakes 
a project on a continuous basis named as ‚V30Winner™, which provides 
opportunity to and proactively engages the disadvantaged, vulnerable 
and marginalized section of its workforce.
Under this project a group of 3-5 workman is formed who provides 
the Company innovative ideas, either ˜nancial or non-˜nancial, for the 
bene˜t of the Company. The best ideas amongst all are selected and 
adopted by the Company and the team is incentivized.
In this manner the Company recognizes and motivates the marginalized 
stakeholders.
The Company extends its social responsibility by engaging in providing 
education to underprivileged, medical and sanitation facilities through 
its CSR projects.
Principle 5
1
Does the policy of the Company 
on human rights cover only the 
company or extend to the Group 
/ Joint Ventures / Suppliers / 
Contractors / NGOs / Others
The Company believes that a sustainable organization rests on a 
foundation of respect for human rights. Hence it is committed to 
protect the human rights across the Company. The Company has in 
place a Human Rights policy which prioritizes the various rights of 
the employees™ working within the Company and further all other 
aspects of the Human rights are covered by the Company™s internal 
HR policies and practices. The Company does not hire child labour, 
forced labour or involuntary labour and never discriminates between 
its employees. Further, the Company also persuades its Joint venture, 
suppliers, contractors and others to follow the said practices, to the 
extent possible.
2
How many stakeholder complaints 
have been received in the past 
˜nancial year and what percent 
was satisfactorily resolved by the 
management
Nil
Business Responsibility Report
34
Principle 6
1
Does the policy related to Principle 6 
cover only the company or extends 
to the Group/ Joint Ventures /
Suppliers /Contractors /NGOs /others
The Company™s policy on Environment is applicable to all, including 
its subsidiary & Joint Venture Companies. Further, the Company 
obtains its raw material from large suppliers who themselves are 
law compliant and have National awards to their credit. They all are 
practicing Sustainable practices such as use of renewable energy, rain 
water harvesting, water recycling etc.
2
Does the Company have strategies/ 
initiatives to address global 
environmental issues such as climate 
change, global warming, etc.? Y/N. 
If yes, please give hyperlink for 
webpage etc.
Yes. The Company™s policy on Environment guides the organization to 
continually mitigate the impact on climate change and global warming 
as a result of its operations. The Company is continuously working to 
improve energy ef˜ciency in its operations. The Company adheres to 
all legal requirements and norms of energy conservation standards 
stipulated by the Government of India. Energy conservation initiatives 
are part of regular operations.
The Company has transited from ISO50001:2011 to the latest 
ISO50001:2018 version, certi˜ed by TUV-SUD Germany for upgrading 
its Energy Management Systems by identifying its signi˜cant Risks 
& Opportunities based on international norms and standards of 
governance
Your Company has been certi˜ed for ﬁGreen Guardﬂ compliance which 
ensures:
i)
  
Consumption of less energy at the manufacturing stage.
ii)
  
Harmful gases are not emitted when exposed for longer duration 
which pollutes indoor air quality.
iii)
  
Safe disposal or recycling to make new products at the end of its 
life cycle.
The Company has taken the following initiatives to address global 
environmental issues such as Climate change, global warming, Fresh 
water supply -
1.
  
Practicing Zero Water discharge for the past 4 years. (Water 
recycling).
2.
 
Adopted Rain water harvesting.
3.
  
Promoting Environment friendly products such as Wello Water 
Wheel for porting water to help women from the tedious task of 
carrying water in vessels over their head.
4.
  
Using FDA & RoHS compliant Plastic Raw Materials.
5.
  
Practice of reduce, recycle & reuse of scarce resources and waste 
management, including hazardous wastes, are as per PCB norms.
6.
  
Implemented project for Zero Ozone depleting potential and 
Reduce Global warming potential by replacing the PU system.
3
Does the Company identify and 
assess potential environmental risks? 
Y/N
Yes. Aspect & Impact Study for all processes is carried out with proper 
Management program for all signi˜cant aspects.
The Company has implemented ISO EHS system at our plants. It 
continues to effectively maintain ISO14001:2015 EMS and were re-
certi˜ed in 2020-21 by TUV-Germany.
The Company has a mechanism to identify and access potential 
environmental risks in its plants.
4
Does the Company have any project 
related to Clean Development 
Mechanism? If so, provide details 
thereof, in about 50 words or 
so. Also, if Yes, whether any 
environmental compliance report is 
˜led
Yes. The Company has consistently managed and improved the 
environmental performance. The Company is sensitive to its role as 
user of natural resources. The efforts to manage water, energy and 
material resources at all its units have yielded positive results. Further, 
Waste Management disposal is also practiced across all units.
The Company ˜les Environment Statement Form V.
Business Responsibility Report
35
5
Has the company undertaken 
any other initiatives on Œ clean 
technology, energy ef˜ciency, 
renewable energy, etc. Y/N
If yes, please give hyperlink for web 
page etc.
Yes. The Company has undertaken initiatives in recycling system of our 
own polymeric products alongwith the same the energy consumption 
reduction under umbrella of ISO 50001 system to reduce overall carbon 
foot print and utilization of solar system capacity is also increased in 
other plants.
6
Are the Emissions/ Waste generated 
by the Company within the 
permissible limits given by CPCB/
SPCB for the ˜nancial year being 
reported?
Yes
7
Number of show cause/ legal notices 
received from CPCB/SPCB which 
are pending (i.e. not resolved to 
satisfaction) as on end of Financial 
Year
Nil
Principle 7
1
Is your Company a member of any 
trade and chamber or association? 
If Yes, Name only those major ones 
that your business deals with:
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and 
Plastic Export Promotion Council (PLEX Council), Retail Association of 
India (RAI).
2
Have you advocated/ lobbied 
through above associations for the 
advancement or improvement of 
public good? Yes/No;
If yes specify the broad areas 
(drop box: Governance and 
Administration, Economic Reforms, 
Inclusive Development Policies, 
Energy security, Water, Food Security, 
Sustainable Business Principles, 
Others)
Yes. The Company generally supports the decisions taken by the 
associations to which the Company is connected with.
Principle 8
1
Does the Company have speci˜ed 
programmes / initiatives / projects 
in pursuit of the policy related to 
Principle 8? If yes details thereof
Yes. The Company have a CSR policy in place and it carried out activities 
majorly in the areas of education, providing of health care hygiene 
and sanitation facilities and rural development.
2
Are the programmes/projects 
undertaken through in-house team/
own foundation/ external NGO/ 
government structures/any other 
organization?
The Company extends its social responsibility projects directly as well as 
through Nilkamal Foundation, a section 8 Company Œ the Implementing 
Agency of the Company.
3
Have you done any impact 
assessment of your initiative?
The Company makes CSR spends through Nilkamal Foundation Œ 
implementing agency, which contributes to various institutions/ projects 
having good track record. Since, impact assessment is an ongoing 
process, the Company periodically assess whether the said institutions 
have utilized the funds towards the purpose for which they have been 
donated. During the Financial year, the Company has completed an in-
house project through its implementing agency for reconstruction and 
modernisation of Government School near Mahuva, Gujarat.
4
What is your Company™s direct 
contribution to community 
development projects- Amount in 
INR and the details of the projects 
undertaken.
During the year ended March 31, 2021, the Company has spent 
 
`
 327.81 lacs on various projects through its implementing agency viz; 
Nilkamal Foundation . The details of the same are provided under the 
‚Annual Report on CSR™ section.
Business Responsibility Report
36
5
Have you taken steps to ensure 
that this community development 
initiative is successfully adopted by 
the community? Please explain in 50 
words, or so
The Company has contributed its funds to institutions furthering the 
bene˜t to the disadvantaged and needy section of the society and 
the same has been acknowledged by them. The Company is also 
monitoring that the school reconstructed by them is functioning in a 
proper manner and the bene˜ts of the same are passed in a systematic 
manner to the under privileged children™s.
Principle 9
1
What percentage of customer 
complaints/ consumer cases are 
pending as on the end of ˜nancial 
year
3% of the customer complaints received during the year were pending.
2
Does the Company display product 
information on the product label, 
over and above what is mandated as 
per local laws? Yes/No/N.A. Remarks 
(additional information)
Yes. The products of the Company display all information which is 
mandated by law including the directions for 
use.The
 Company follows 
all legal statutes with respect to product labeling and displaying of 
product information, such as features, attributes, bene˜ts, recycling 
codes, etc., wherever applicable. Further, the Company adheres to 
appropriate advertising policies and also adopts fair business practices 
in all its dealings.
The Company never restricts the freedom of choice and free 
competition in any manner while catering to its customer needs.
3
Is there any case ˜led by any 
stakeholder against the Company 
regarding unfair trade practices, 
irresponsible advertising and/or anti-
competitive behavior during the last 
˜ve years and pending as on end of 
˜nancial year. If so, provide details 
thereof, in about 50 words or so.
Nil
4
Did your Company carry out 
any consumer survey/ consumer 
satisfaction trends?
Yes, the Company had conducted survey named ﬁHow can we serve 
you better?ﬂ on half yearly basis. In addition to the same a NPS (Net 
promoter Score) was conducted inorder to judge the quality and 
service levels of the Company.
Business Responsibility Report
37
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board of Directors present the Company™s Report on Corporate Governance pursuant to the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended 
 
(
‚SEBI Listing Regulations™
), for the year ended March 31, 2021.
1.
 
COMPANY'S PHILOSOPHY ON THE CODE OF GOVERNANCE
  
Your Company endeavours to strengthen its governance principles to generate long-term value for its various 
stakeholders on a sustainable basis thus ensuring ethical and responsible leadership both at the Board and 
the Management levels. The Company is committed to transparency in all its dealings and places emphasis 
on business ethics.
  
Corporate Governance is an on-going process that ensures the affairs of the Company are managed with 
proper accountability, fairness and transparency to the core of its sense. This also helps and enables the 
Board and Management to achieve the goals and objectives effectively for the bene˜t of the Company and 
its Stakeholders including Customers, Shareholders, Creditors and Employees.
  
In terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the details of compliance for the year ended March 31, 2021 are as 
follows:
2.
 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
The Composition of the Board
  
The Board of Directors (‚Board™) of the Company comprises of an optimum combination of Executive and 
 
Non-Executive Directors, including an Independent Woman Director in line with the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (‚the Act™) and the (‚SEBI Listing Regulations™) as amended from time to time. As at the end of the 
˜nancial year 2021, the total Board strength comprises of eleven Directors on the Board, out of which seven 
are Non-Executive Directors including a Non-Executive Chairman, and the rest are Executive Directors.
  
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh is the Chairman Emeritus (non-director) of the Company with effect from August 15, 
2020.
  
The Independent Directors do not have any material pecuniary relationship or transactions with the Company, 
Promoters or Management, which may affect their judgement in any manner. The Directors are eminently 
quali˜ed and experienced professionals in industrial, managerial, business, ˜nance, marketing and corporate 
management that allow them to make effective contribution to the Board and its Committees. The Directors 
attending the meetings actively participate in the deliberations at these meetings by providing valuable 
guidance to the Management on various aspects of business, policy direction, governance, compliance 
etc. which adds value in the decision making process of the Board of Directors. The Board sets out the 
overall corporate objectives and provides direction and independence to the management to achieve these 
objectives for value creation through sustainable pro˜table growth. The Board meets at least once in a 
quarter to consider amongst other matters, the quarterly performance of the Company and ˜nancial results.
  
Further none of the Directors on the Board is a member of more than ten Committees or Chairman of 
˜ve Committees (committees being Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee) across all 
the Indian Public Companies in which he/she is a Director. Necessary disclosures regarding their Committee 
positions have been made by all the Directors.
  
None of the Directors hold of˜ce in more than ten Public Companies. None of the Independent Directors of 
the Company serve as an Independent Director in more than seven listed companies. All Directors are also in 
compliance with the limit on Independent Directorships of listed companies as prescribed under Regulation 
17A of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The Board con˜rms that the Independent Directors ful˜l the conditions 
speci˜ed in these regulations and that they are Independent of the management.
Corporate Governance Report
38
 
Composition/ Category of Directors/ Attendance at Meetings as on March 31, 2021: -
Name of the Director
Category of Directorship
No. Of.
Board Meeting 
attended
Attendance at 
the last AGM 
held on 
 
August 14, 2020
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
DIN : 06992518
Independent, Non-Executive Director
4
Yes
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy
DIN : 00058467
Independent Non-Executive Director
4
Yes
Mr. K. Venkataramanan
DIN : 00001647
Independent, Non-Executive Director
4
Yes
Mr. Mahendra V. Doshi
DIN : 00123243
Independent, Non-Executive Director
4
Yes
Mr. Mufazzal Federal
DIN : 03409798
Independent, Non-Executive Director
4
Yes
Mr. S. K. Palekar
DIN : 01723670
Independent, Non-Executive Director
4
Yes
***Mr. Hiten V. Parekh
DIN : 00037550
Managing Director
Executive Director
4
Yes
****Mr. Manish V. Parekh
DIN : 00037724
Joint Managing Director
Executive Director
4
Yes
Mr. Mihir H. Parekh
DIN : 07308466
Executive Directo
r
Executive Director
4
Yes
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh
DIN : 00037597
Executive Director
Executive Director
4
Yes
**Mr. Sharad V. Parekh
DIN : 00035747
Chairman
Non Executive Director
4
Yes
*Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh
DIN : 00037519
Chairman
Non-Executive Director
1
Yes
 
 

*
  
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh, Chairman, retired from the Board of the Company w.e.f. the close of the business hours on 
August 14, 2020 and the members appointed him as Chairman Emeritus effective from August 15, 2020.
  
**
  
Mr. Sharad V. Parekh, Managing Director, retired as the Managing Director of the Company w.e.f. the close of the 
business hours on August 14, 2020 and the members appointed him as the Non - Executive Chairman of the Company 
w.e.f. August 15, 2020.
  
***
  
Mr. Hiten V. Parekh, Executive Director was re-designated as the ‚Managing Director™ by the members w.e.f. August 
15, 2020.
  
****
 
Mr. Manish V. Parekh, Executive Director was re-designated as ‚Joint Managing Director™ by the Board of Directors 
w.e.f. February 9, 2021 subject to rati˜cation of the members in the ensuing AGM.
Corporate Governance Report
39
  
Number of directorships / committee memberships held by the Directors of the Company in other 
Companies including the names of the other listed entities where the Director is a Director and 
the category of their directorship as on March 31, 2021:-
Name of the Director
Number of 
directorship 
in other 
public 
Companies*
Committee 
Chairmanship and 
Membership*
Names of other Listed Companies in 
which he/she holds Directorship and 
category of Directorship
Shareholding 
of Non-
Executive 
Directors
Chairman-
ship**
Member-
ship**
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
DIN : 06992518
3
1
3
1.
  
Tata Teleservices (Maharashtra) Limited 
Œ Independent, Non-Executive Director
2.
  
Polycab India Limited - Independent, 
Non- Executive Director
Nil
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy
DIN : 00058467
3
2
4
1.
  
Amrit Corp. Limited - Independent 
Non-Executive Director
2.
  
Subros Limited - Independent Non-
Executive Director
3.
  
Ujjivan Financial Services Limited - 
Independent, Non-Executive Director
Nil
Mr. K. Venkataramanan
DIN : 00001647
2
-
1
1.
  
Kirloskar Pneumatic Company Limited-
Independent, Non-Executive Director
Nil
Mr. Mahendra V. Doshi
DIN : 00123243
7
2
4
1.
  
Graviss Hospitality Limited Œ 
Independent, Non-Executive Director
2.
  
LKP Finance Limited Œ Chairman, 
Executive Director
3.
  
LKP Securities Limited Œ Non-
Independent, Non Executive Director
7,200
Mr. Mufazzal Federal
DIN : 03409798
-
-
-
-
Nil
Mr. S. K. Palekar
DIN : 01723670
-
-
-
-
Nil
Mr. Hiten V. Parekh
DIN : 00037550
Managing Director
#
1
-
-
-
NA
Mr. Manish V. Parekh
DIN : 00037724
Joint Managing Director
#
1
-
-
-
NA
Mr. Mihir H. Parekh
DIN : 07308466
Executive Director
-
-
-
-
NA
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh
DIN : 00037597
Executive Director
#
1
-
-
-
NA
Mr. Sharad V. Parekh
DIN : 00035747
Chairman
-
-
-
-
120,800
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh
DIN : 00037519
Chairman
-
-
-
-
132,900
  
*
  
Excludes
 
Directorship and Committee chairmanship / membership in Private Companies, Foreign Companies, Section 
8 Companies and Nilkamal Limited.
  
#
  
Includes Directorship in Nilkamal Storage Systems Private Limited (formerly known as Nilkamal Bito Storage Systems 
Private Limited), being deemed to be public limited Company since it is subsidiary of Nilkamal Limited.
  
**
  
Only Audit Committee and Stakeholder™s Relationship Committee of Public Limited Company (whether listed or not) 
has been consider as per Regulation 26(1) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
  
Separate Meeting of Independent Directors
  
As required under the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Independent Directors held one separate meeting on 
February 9, 2021. The Independent Directors discussed and reviewed the matters speci˜ed in Regulation 
25(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Corporate Governance Report
40
  
Further, as a part of familiarization programme, t
he Board members are provided with necessary documents, 
reports, internal policies, 
amendments to the various enactments, statutory laws, etc., 
to enable them to 
familiarise themselves with the Company's operations. Periodic presentations are made at the Board and 
Board Committee Meetings, on business and performance updates of the Company, updates on products 
of the Company, Company plans and strategies, budgets, risk management mechanism, investments, fund 
˚ows, operations of subsidiaries and associates etc.. The details pertaining to the familiarisation program can 
be
 
accessed
 
at
 
the
 
Company™s
 
weblink at
 
https://nilkamal.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Familiarization-
Programme-For-Independent-Directors.pdf
  
In addition to the same, any new Independent Director is welcomed to the Board of Directors of the Company 
by sharing a tool kit containing various policies of the Company for his reference
.
 
Number of Board Meetings held and the dates on which held
  
There were four Board Meetings of the Company held during the ˜nancial year 2020-2021 on the following 
dates: June 28, 2020, September 12, 2020, November 4, 2020 and February 9, 2021.
 
Inter-se Relationship
  
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh and Mr. Sharad V. Parekh are brothers. Further, Mr. Hiten V. Parekh and Mr. Manish 
V. Parekh are sons of Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh, Mr. Mihir H. Parekh is son of Mr. Hiten V. Parekh and Mr. Nayan 
S. Parekh is son of Mr. Sharad V. Parekh.
 
Except the above there are no inter-se relationships among the Directors.
 
Criteria for Board membership
  
The Board has adopted the Nomination and Remuneration Policy to ensure that the Board composition 
is balanced with the requisite skillsets, so that the Company bene˜ts from new insights, guidance and 
challenges to business proposals. The Policy outlines the appointment criteria and quali˜cations of the 
Directors on the Board of Company and the matters related to remuneration of the Directors. The said Policy 
is available on the Company™s website at 
https://nilkamal.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Nomination-and-
Remuneration-Policy_11052018.pdf
  
In terms of the requirement of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board has identi˜ed the core skills/expertise/ 
competencies of the Directors in the context of the Company™s business for effective functioning and as 
available with the Board. These are as follows:
Sr. 
No.
Areas of expertise
Required
Skill areas actually available with the Board
1.
Strategy and planning - Ability to think 
strategically; identify and critically assess 
strategic opportunities and threats. Develop 
effective strategies in the context of the 
strategic objectives of the Company, relevant 
policies and priorities.
2.
Governance, Risk and Compliance - Experience 
in the application of corporate governance 
principles. Ability to identify key risks to the 
Company
 
in a wide range of areas including 
legal and regulatory compliance.
3.
Financial - Comprehensive understanding of 
˜nancial accounting, reporting and controls 
and analysis.
4.
Sales, Marketing & Brand building - Experience 
in developing strategies to grow sales and 
market share, build brand awareness and 
equity, and enhance enterprise reputation.
Hiroo Mirchandani
K. R. Ramamoorthy
K. Venkataramanan
Mahendra V. Doshi
Mufazzal Federal
S. K. Palekar
Hiten V. Parekh
Manish V. Parekh
Mihir H. Parekh
Nayan S. Parekh
Sharad V. Parekh
Corporate Governance Report
41
3.
 
AUDIT COMMITTEE
  
The composition of the Audit Committee and the scope of its activities and powers are in conformity with 
and includes the areas prescribed under the Regulations 18 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Section 177 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules framed thereunder. The Board reviews the working of the Committee 
from time to time to bring about greater effectiveness in order to comply with the various requirements 
under the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015. The Audit Committee comprises of four Non-Executive 
Directors who are well versed with the ˜nancial matters and corporate laws. Consequent to the retirement 
of Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh from the membership of the Audit Committee w.e.f. the close of the business 
hours of August 14, 2020, the Committee was reconstituted by the Board of Directors with effect from 
August 15, 2020 by inducting Mr. Sharad V. Parekh as a member of this Committee.
  
The Audit Committee met four times on June 28, 2020, September 12, 2020, November 4, 2020 and February 
9, 2021. The necessary quorum was present for all the meetings. The Chairman of the Audit committee was 
present at the last Annual General Meeting of the Company held on August 14, 2020.
 
Details of the composition of the Audit Committee and attendance of the Members are as follows:
Name
Category
Position
No. of Meetings
Held
Attended
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy
Independent,
Non- Executive
Chairman
4
4
Mr. Mahendra V. Doshi
Independent,
Non-Executive
Member
4
4
Mr. Mufazzal Federal
Independent,
Non-Executive
Member
4
4
*Mr. Sharad V. Parekh
Non-Executive
Member
4
3
**Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh
Non-Executive
Member
4
1
 
* Mr. Sharad V. Parekh was appointed as a member w.e.f. August 15, 2020 in place of Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh.
 
** Mr. Vamanrai. V. Parekh ceased to be a member w.e.f. the close of the business hours on August 14, 2020
.
 
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
  
The Audit Committee invites the Managing Director, Executive Directors, Senior Executives representing 
various functional areas of the Company, Statutory Auditors and Internal Auditors at its Meetings.
 
Terms of Reference:
  
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee (AC) covers the areas mentioned in Section 177 of the Act 
and Regulation 18 read with Part C of Schedule II to the SEBI Listing Regulations. The scope and terms of 
reference of the said committee have been widened in line with the amendments made to SEBI Listing 
Regulations. The terms of reference of the AC, inter-alia are as follows:
 
1.
 
Audited and Un-audited ˜nancial results;
 
2.
 
Internal Audit reports, risk management policies and reports on internal control system;
 
3.
  
Discusses the larger issues that are of vital concern to the Company including adequacy of internal 
controls and adequacy of provisions for liabilities, etc.;
 
4.
  
Transactions proposed to be entered into by the Company with related parties and approves such 
transactions including any subsequent modi˜cations thereto;
 
5.
 
Functioning of Whistle Blower Policy; and
 
6.
  
Recommends proposals for appointment and remuneration payable to the Statutory Auditor and 
Internal Auditors and also the proposal for appointment of Chief Financial Of˜cer. The Audit Committee 
also reviews adequacy of disclosures and compliance with all relevant laws.
  
In addition to the aforesaid, the Committee also looks into the matters as are speci˜cally referred to it by 
the Board of Directors besides looking into the mandatory requirements of the SEBI Listing Regulations as 
amended from time to time and that of the Act.
Corporate Governance Report
42
4.
 
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
  
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee presently consists of three Non-Executive Directors, all 
being Independent. The Committee met two times in 2020-2021 on June 28, 2020 and February 9, 2021. The 
necessary quorum was present for both the meetings. The Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee was present at the last Annual General Meeting of the Company held on August 14, 2020. The 
composition of the Committee during 2020 and the details of meetings held and attended by the members 
are as under:
Name
Category
Position
No. of Meetings
Held
Attended
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy
Independent,
Non- Executive
Chairman
2
2
Mr. Mahendra V. Doshi
Independent,
Non-Executive
Member
2
2
Mr. Mufazzal Federal
Independent,
Non-Executive
Member
2
2
 
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
  
The terms of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) covers the areas mentioned 
in Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 read with Part D (A) of Schedule II to the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
The scope and terms of reference of the said committee have been widened in line with the amendments 
made to SEBI Listing Regulations. The terms of reference of the NRC, inter-alia are as follows:
 
1)
  
To formulate the criteria for determining quali˜cations, competencies, positive attributes and 
independence for appointment of a Director and recommend to the Board, policies relating to the 
remuneration of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other employees;
 
2)
  
To identify persons who are quali˜ed to become Directors and who may be appointed in senior 
management in accordance with the criteria laid down and recommend to the Board their appointment 
and removal;
 
3)
 
To formulate the criteria for evaluation of the Independent Directors and the Board;
 
4)
 
To devise a policy on Board diversity.
 
5)
  
Whether to extend or continue the term of appointment of the Independent Director, on the basis of 
the report of performance evaluation of Independent Directors.
 
6)
 
Recommend to the board, all remuneration, in whatever form, payable to senior management.
 
Performance evaluation:
  
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the applicable provisions of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Annual Performance Evaluation was carried out for the ˜nancial year 2020 -21 by the Board 
in respect of its own performance, the Directors individually as well as the evaluation of the working of its 
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration, Stakeholders™ Relationship, Risk Management, Board™s Management, 
Share Transfer Committee and Corporate Social Responsibility Committees. A structured questionnaire 
covering various aspects of the Board™s functioning such as adequacy of the composition of the Board and its 
Committees, Board culture, execution and performance of speci˜c duties, obligations and governance was 
prepared and circulated after taking into consideration the Guidance note issued by SEBI vide circular no, 
CMD/ CIR/P/2017/004 dated 05.01.2017 as well as the performance evaluation criteria™s placed by the NRC for 
Board, Committees of Board, Chairman and Directors.
  
A separate exercise was carried out to evaluate the performance of individual Directors including the 
Chairman of the Board who were evaluated on parameters such as guidance/ support to management 
outside Board/ Committee meetings, degree of ful˜lment of key responsibilities, effectiveness of meetings 
etc. The performance evaluation of the Independent Directors was carried out by the entire Board.
  
The Independent Directors expressed their satisfaction with the evaluation process, the Board™s freedom 
to express its views on matters transacted at the Meetings and the openness and transparency with which 
the Management discusses various subject matters speci˜ed on the agenda of Meetings. The consolidated 
evaluation report of the Board, based on inputs received from the Directors was discussed at the Meeting of 
the Board held on February 9, 2021 and the action areas identi˜ed in the process are being implemented to 
ensure a better interface at the Board/ Management level.
Corporate Governance Report
43
 
Remuneration to Directors:
  
The Company has a well-de˜ned policy for the remuneration of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel 
and other employees. The said policy was reviewed and approved by the Board at its meeting held on May 
11, 2018 based upon the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. The said policy 
is set out on the website of the Company at 
https://nilkamal.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Nomination-
and-Remuneration-Policy_11052018.pdf
  
The Board of Directors / Nomination and Remuneration Committee is authorized to decide the remuneration 
of the Executive Directors, subject to the approval of the members. The remuneration structure comprises of 
salary, perquisites, retirement bene˜ts as per law / rules and commission which is linked to the performance 
of the Company.
  
Annual increments are decided by the Board of Directors within the salary scale approved by the members. 
Mr. Hiten V. Parekh, Managing Director, Manish V. Parekh, Joint Managing Director and Mr. Nayan S. Parekh, 
Executive Director are individually entitled to commission to the extent of 1% of the net pro˜ts of the 
Company over and above the net pro˜ts of 
`
 50.00 crores.
  
The agreement with the Executive Directors is for a speci˜ed period. Either party to the agreement is entitled to 
terminate the agreement by giving not less than three months™ notice in writing to the other party. Further, in 
case of termination of agreement by the Company, a severance fee of three months™ remuneration shall be paid.
 
The Company does not have a scheme for grant of stock options.
  
The Company has a policy for determining the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company. 
The Company remunerates its Non-Executive Directors by way of sitting fees for attending each meeting of the 
Board and / or Committee, and the same is paid within the limits laid down in the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with the Rules framed thereunder. The remuneration determined for the Non-Executive Directors is subject to 
the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and approval of the Board of Directors.
  
The Non-Executive Directors are paid sitting fee of 
`
 1,00,000 per meeting for attending Board Meeting, 
 
`
 75,000 per meeting for Audit Committee Meeting, 
`
 50,000 per meeting for Risk Management Committee 
Meeting
, `
 50,000 per meeting for separate meeting of Independent Directors, 
`
 30,000 per meeting for 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee Meeting, 
`
 25,000 per meeting for Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee Meeting and 
`
 15,000 per meeting for Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Meeting.
  
The details of remuneration paid to the Directors for the ˜nancial year 2020-2021 are given below:
Name of the Director
Salary & 
perquisites (
`
)
Commission for 
the FY 2020-
2021 (payable 
in FY 2021-2022)
Sitting fees 
(
`
)
Total (
 `
)
No. of 
Shares held 
as on
31-03-2021
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
N.A.
N.A.
450,000
450,000
Nil
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy
N.A.
N.A.
875,000
875,000
Nil
Mr. K. Venkataramanan
N.A.
N.A.
525,000
525,000
Nil
Mr. Mahendra V. Doshi
N.A.
N.A.
810,000
810,000
7,200
Mr. Mufazzal S. Federal
N.A.
N.A.
810,000
810,000
Nil
Mr. S. K. Palekar
N.A.
N.A.
450,000
450,000
Nil
*
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh
N.A.
N.A.
190,000
190,000
132,900
Mr. Hiten V. Parekh
17,548,663
9,951,000
N.A.
27,499,663
1,901,258
Mr. Manish V. Parekh
17,991,045
9,951,000
N.A.
27,942,045
1,515,563
Mr. Mihir H. Parekh
2,989,803
Nil
N.A.
2,989,803
131,900
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh
15,908,973
9,951,000
N.A.
2,5859,973
2,201,704
**
Mr. Sharad V. Parekh
9,089,793
Nil
550,000
9,639,793
120,800
  
*
  
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh, Chairman, retired from the Board of the Company w.e.f. the close of the business hours on 
August 14, 2020.
 
**
  
Mr. Sharad V. Parekh, Managing Director, retired as the Managing Director of the Company w.e.f. the close of the 
business hours on August 14, 2020 and the members appointed him as the Non - Executive Chairman of the Company 
w.e.f. August 15, 2020.
 
Notes:
 
1.
  
Sitting fees include fees for attending the Board Meetings, Audit Committee Meetings, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee Meetings, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Meeting, Stakeholder™s 
Relationship Committee Meeting, Risk Management Committee Meeting and Independent Director™s 
Meeting.
Corporate Governance Report
44
5.
 
STAKEHOLDERS™ RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE
  
The Company™s Stakeholders™ Relationship Committee is responsible for the satisfactory redressal of investor 
complaints. During the year under review, the Committee met once on November 4, 2020. The composition 
and details of the meetings attended by the members are given below:
Name
Category
Position
No. of Meetings
Held
Attended
*
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh
Non-Executive
Chairman
1
0
Mr. Sharad V. Parekh
Non-Executive
Chairman
1
1
Mr. K. Venkataramanan
Independent,
Non- Executive
Member
1
1
Mr. Hiten V. Parekh
Executive
Member
1
1
 
*
 
Mr. Vamanrai. V. Parekh ceased to be a member w.e.f. the close of the business hours on August 14, 2020.
  
Ms. Priti P. Dave, Company Secretary is the ﬁCompliance Of˜cerﬂ who oversees the redressal of the investors™ 
grievances.
 
Terms of Reference:
  
The terms of reference of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee (SRC) covers the areas mentioned in 
Section 178 (5) of the Act and Regulation 20 read with Part D (B) of Schedule II to the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
The scope and terms of reference of the said committee have been widened in line with the amendments 
made to SEBI Listing Regulations.
 
The terms of reference of the SRC, inter-alia are as follows:
 
1)
  
Resolving the grievances of the security holders of the Company including complaints related to transfer/
transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/
duplicate certi˜cates, general meetings etc.
 
2)
 
Review of measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders.
 
3)
  
Review of adherence to the service standards adopted by the Company in respect of various services 
being rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.
 
4)
  
Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by the listed entity for reducing the quantum of 
unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/annual reports/statutory notices 
by the shareholders of the company.
  
During the year, the Company had received 4 complaints from shareholders, which were disposed-off within 
due time and there were no complaints which had remained unresolved at the end of the year. Further, no 
investor grievance has remained unattended / pending for more than thirty days.
  
The Company has assigned its share transfer and dematerialisation work to M/s. Link Intime India Private 
Limited, Registrar and Transfer Agents. As on March 31, 2021 there were 2 dematerialisation requests for 500 
Equity Shares which was pending for approval with the Registrars.
6.
 
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
  
Details of the location of the last three Annual General Meetings (AGM) and details of the special 
resolutions passed:
Annual 
General 
Meeting 
(AGM)
Date
Time
Venue
Special Resolution Passed
34
th
 AGM
14-08-2020
11.00 a.m.
Through two 
way Video 
Conferencing 
(ﬁVCﬂ) / Other 
1.
  
Adoption of new set of Articles of Association 
(AOA) as per Companies Act, 2013.
Corporate Governance Report
45
Audio Visual 
Means
(ﬁOAVMﬂ)
2.
  
Appoint Mihir Parekh (DIN: 07308466) as an 
Executive Director
 
for a period of ˜ve years 
effective
 
from February 1, 2020 to January 31, 
2025 and
 
approve his remuneration alongwith 
other
 
terms and conditions of his
 
appointment 
together with Continuation of payment of 
remuneration to Executive Directors who are 
Promoters in excess of threshold limits as per 
SEBI (LODR) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018.
3.
  
Re-appoint Mr. K. Venkataramanan (DIN: 
00001647) as an Independent Director
 
for ˜ve 
years effective
 
from August 14, 2020 to August 
13, 2025 and approve
 
the
 
continuation
 
of his 
Directorship
 
since he is
 
above 75 years of age.
4.
  
Re-appoint Mr. Sharad V. Parekh (DIN: 00035747) 
as a Managing Director
 
effective
 
from April 1, 
2020
 
till the close of business hours on
 
August 14, 
2020
 
and approve his remuneration alongwith 
other
 
terms and conditions of his
 
appointment 
together with Continuation of payment of 
remuneration to Executive Directors who are 
Promoters in excess of threshold limits as per 
SEBI (LODR) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018.
5.
  
Appoint Mr. Sharad V. Parekh (DIN: 00035747) 
as a Non-Executive
 
Director to be designated as 
the
 
Chairman of the Company effective
 
from 
August 15, 2020,
 
not liable to retire by rotation 
and continuation of
 
his
 
directorship since he is 
above 75 years of
 
age.
6.
  
Re-appoint
 
Mr. Hiten V. Parekh (DIN: 00037550) 
as a Joint Managing Director
 
effective
 
from 
April 1, 2020
 
till the close of business hours 
on
 
August 14, 2020 and as a Managing 
Director
 
effective
 
from August 15, 2020 till 
March 31, 2025
 
and approve his remuneration 
alongwith other
 
terms and conditions of 
his
 
appointment together with Continuation of 
payment of remuneration to Executive Directors 
who are Promoters in excess of threshold limits 
as per SEBI (LODR) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018.
7.
  
Re-appoint Mr. Manish V. Parekh (DIN: 00037724) 
as an Executive Director
 
effective
 
from April 
1, 2020 to March 31, 2025
 
and approve his 
remuneration alongwith other
 
terms and 
conditions of his
 
appointment together with 
Continuation of payment of remuneration 
to Executive Directors who are Promoters in 
excess of threshold limits as per SEBI (LODR) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018.
8.
  
Re-appoint Mr. Nayan S. Parekh (DIN: 00037597) 
as an Executive Director
 
effective
 
from April 
1, 2020 to March 31, 2025
 
and approve his 
remuneration alongwith other
 
terms and 
conditions of his
 
appointment together with 
Continuation of payment of remuneration 
to Executive Directors who are Promoters in 
excess of threshold limits as per SEBI (LODR) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018.
Corporate Governance Report
46
33
rd
 AGM
28-06-2019
12.00 
noon
Survey No. 
354/2 and 354/3, 
Near Rakholi 
Bridge, Silvassa 
Œ Khanvel Road, 
Vasona, Silvassa 
Œ 396 230, 
Union Territory 
of Dadra & 
Nagar Haveli.
1.
  
Approval for continuation of the existing tenure 
of Directorship of Mr. K. Venkataramanan, as 
an Independent Director of the Company after 
attaining the age of 75 years 
years till completion 
of his present term i.e. upto conclusion of Thirty 
Fourth Annual General Meeting
.
2.
  
Re-appointment of Mr. Mahendra V. Doshi as an 
Independent Director for a period of ˜ve years 
w.e.f. 28
th
 June, 2019.
3.
  
Re-appointment of Mr. Mufazzal S. Federal as 
an Independent Director for a period of ˜ve 
years w.e.f. 28
th
 June, 2019.
4.
  
Re-appointment of Mr. S. K. Palekar as an 
Independent Director for a period of ˜ve years 
w.e.f. 28
th
 June, 2019.
5.
  
Continuation of payment of remuneration 
to Executive Directors who are Promoters in 
excess of threshold limits as per SEBI (LODR) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018.
32
nd
 AGM
30-06-2018
1.
  
Re-appointment of Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani as an 
Independent Director for a period of ˜ve years.
2.
  
Re-classi˜cation of Ms. Rajul Manoj Gandhi and 
Mr. Manoj Kantilal Gandhi from ‚Promoter / 
promoter group category™ to ‚Public category.
  
All special resolutions set out in the Notices for the Annual General Meetings were passed by the Members 
at the respective meetings with requisite majority.
 
Postal Ballots
 
No resolutions were passed through postal ballot during the last ˜nancial year.
7.
 
DISCLOSURES
 
a)
 
Related Party Transactions
   
The Company has formulated a policy on Materiality of and dealing with Related Party Transactions. 
The Policy is available on the website of the Company at the link 
https://nilkamal.com/wp-content/
uploads/2019/03/Policyonmaterialityofanddealingwithrelatedparty_290120191.pdf
   
There are no materially signi˜cant transactions with the related parties that had potential con˚ict with 
the interest of the Company. All these transactions are in the normal course of business and are carried 
out on an arm™s length basis.
 
b)
 
Compliance
   
During the Financial year 2019-2020, BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) 
vide their letter dated November 6, 2019 levied a penalty of 
`
 11,800/- each for delay in submission of 
voting results by one day for the Postal Ballot convened on March 24, 2019 to the said Exchanges. The 
Company has paid the said ˜ne.
   
Apart for the above, there was no non-compliance by the Company nor any penalties or strictures were 
imposed on the Company by the Stock Exchanges or Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), or any 
statutory authority on any matter related to the capital markets during the last three years.
 
c)
 
Whistle Blower Policy
   
Pursuant to Section 177(9) and (10) of the Companies Act, 2013 and the provisions of SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Company has a Whistle Blower Policy for establishing a vigil mechanism for Directors 
and employees to report genuine concerns regarding unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud or 
violation of the Company™s Code of Conduct. The said mechanism also provides for adequate safeguards 
against victimisation of persons who use such mechanism and makes provision for direct access to the 
Chairperson of the Audit Committee in appropriate or exceptional cases. We af˜rm that no employee of 
the Company was denied access to the Audit Committee. The said Whistle Blower Policy has been hosted 
on the website of the Company at the link 
https://nilkamal.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Whistle-
Blower-Policy-1.pdf
Corporate Governance Report
47
 
d)
  
Details of compliance with mandatory requirements and adoption of the non-mandatory 
requirements under the SEBI Listing Regulations
   
During the year, the Company has complied with the mandatory requirements as stipulated in SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
   
With respect to the compliance with the non-mandatory requirements pursuant to Regulation 27(1) of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has adopted the following non-mandatory requirements:
   
The quarterly results along with the press release are uploaded on the website of the Company at 
https://nilkamal.com/unaudited-˜nancial-results/
. The soft copy of the quarterly results is also sent to the 
shareholders who have registered their e-mail addresses.
   
The Chairman being Non-Executive Director, an of˜ce is made available for his use during his visits to the 
Company and is reimbursed the expenses incurred towards the performance of his duties.
   
During the year under review, there is no audit quali˜cation on the Company™s ˜nancial statements. 
Your Company continues to adopt best practices to ensure a regime of unmodi˜ed audit opinion.
  
The position of Chairperson of Board and the Managing Director are separate.
   
The Internal Auditor of the Company reports to the Chief Financial Of˜cer and has direct access to the 
Audit Committee.
 
e)
 
Material Subsidiary
   
During the year ended March 31, 2021, the Company does not have any material listed/unlisted 
subsidiary companies as de˜ned in Regulation 16 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The Company has 
framed the policy for determining material subsidiary as required by under Regulation 16 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulation and the same is disclosed on the
 
Company™s
 
website.
 
The
 
weblink
 
is
 
https://nilkamal.
com/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Policy-on-determining-material-subsidiary.pdf
 
f)
 
Commodity Price Risk / Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging activities
   
The Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk on account of import and export transactions and also 
by way of External Commercial Borrowings (ECB™s). The Company is proactively mitigating these risks by 
entering into commensurate hedging transactions as per the Company™s Enterprise Risk Management 
Policy.
 
g)
 
Certi˜cate from Company Secretary in practice
   
The Company has received a certi˜cate from Mr. Pratik M. Shah, 
Practising Company Secretaries, Mumbai
 
that none of the Directors on the board of the company have been debarred or disquali˜ed from being 
appointed or continuing as Directors of the Company by the Board/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any 
such statutory authority. The Certi˜cate of Company Secretary in practice is annexed herewith as a part 
of the report.
 
h)
 
During the ˜nancial year 2020-21, the Board has accepted all the recommendations of its Committees.
 
i)
  
Details of workplace sexual harassment complaints reported as per the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013:
   
The Company is committed to ensuring that all employees work in an environment that not only 
promotes diversity and equality but also mutual trust, equal opportunity and respect for human rights.
   
The Company has formulated a Policy on prevention of Sexual Harassment in accordance with the 
provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder which is aimed at providing every woman at the workplace a 
safe, secure and digni˜ed work environment.
Sr. No.
Particulars
No. Of. Complaints
1
Number of complaints ˜led during the ˜nancial year 2020-21
0
2.
Number of complaints disposed of during the ˜nancial year 2020-21
0
3.
Number of complaints pending as on end of the ˜nancial year 2020-21
0
Corporate Governance Report
48
 
j)
  
Total fees for all services paid by the Listed Entity and its Subsidiaries, on a Consolidated 
basis, to the Statutory auditor and all entities in the network ˜rm/network entity of which 
the Statutory Auditor is a part is given below:
Particulars
` 
in Lakhs
Payment to Statutory Auditors
96.00
Other Services
 2.10
Reimbursement of expenses
 4.26
Total
102.36
   
Note:- The above ˜gures are given on consolidated basis i.e. alongwith its 100% subsidiary, Nikamal 
Storage Systems Private Limited (formerly known as Nilkamal Bito Storage Systems Private Limited).
8.
 
CEO / CFO CERTIFICATION
  
The Managing Director & Chief Financial Of˜cer (CFO) have issued certi˜cate pursuant to the provisions of 
Regulation 17(8) of the SEBI Listing Regulations certifying that the ˜nancial statements do not contain any 
materially untrue statement and these statements represent a true and fair view of the Company™s affairs.
9.
 
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION

The Company™s 
unaudited quarterly ˜nancial results and audited annual ˜nancial results are sent to BSE 
Limited (BSE) and The National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) where the Company™s securities are 
listed, immediately after these are approved by the Board.

The ˜nancial results are published in Mint (English) and Daman Ganga Times.
   
The Company™s results, of˜cial news releases and presentations made to Institutional Investors/ Analysts, 
if any, are displayed on the Company™s website 
www.nilkamal.com
.
 Further, the said results are also 
e-mailed to the shareholders on their registered e-mail IDs.

The Annual Report is circulated to all members, and is also available on the Company™s website.

A Management Discussion and Analysis report is a part of this Annual Report.
 
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
 
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
Date & Time
August 4, 2021 at 11.00 a.m.
Venue
The Company is conducting meeting through VC / OAVM
pursuant to the MCA Circular dated May 5, 2020 & January 13, 2021 and 
as such there is no requirement to have a venue for the AGM. For details 
please refer to the Notice of this AGM
Financial Year
April 1 to March 31
Financial Calendar
Financial Year: April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022
Results for Quarter ending :
June 30, 2021
Before August 14, 2021.
September 30, 2021
Before November 14, 2021.
December 31, 2021
Before February 14, 2022.
March 31, 2022
Before May 30, 2022.
Date of Book Closure
From July 29, 2021 to August 4, 2021 (both days inclusive)
Dividend payment date
Between August 7, 2021 to August 21, 2021.
Listing on Stock Exchanges
1.
  
The BSE Limited
  
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai 400001.
2.
  
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
  
Exchange Plaza, 5
th
 Floor, Plot No. C/1, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (East), Mumbai 400051.
Stock Code
1.
 
The BSE Limited Œ 523385
2.
  
National Stock Exchange of India Limited Œ NILKAMAL
Demat ISIN in NSDL and CDSL 
for Equity Shares
INE310A01015
Corporate Identi˜cation 
Number (CIN)
L25209DN1985PLC000162
Corporate Governance Report
49
 
j)
  
Total fees for all services paid by the Listed Entity and its Subsidiaries, on a Consolidated 
basis, to the Statutory auditor and all entities in the network ˜rm/network entity of which 
the Statutory Auditor is a part is given below:
Particulars
` 
in Lakhs
Payment to Statutory Auditors
96.00
Other Services
 2.10
Reimbursement of expenses
 4.26
Total
102.36
   
Note:- The above ˜gures are given on consolidated basis i.e. alongwith its 100% subsidiary, Nikamal 
Storage Systems Private Limited (formerly known as Nilkamal Bito Storage Systems Private Limited).
8.
 
CEO / CFO CERTIFICATION
  
The Managing Director & Chief Financial Of˜cer (CFO) have issued certi˜cate pursuant to the provisions of 
Regulation 17(8) of the SEBI Listing Regulations certifying that the ˜nancial statements do not contain any 
materially untrue statement and these statements represent a true and fair view of the Company™s affairs.
9.
 
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION

The Company™s 
unaudited quarterly ˜nancial results and audited annual ˜nancial results are sent to BSE 
Limited (BSE) and The National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) where the Company™s securities are 
listed, immediately after these are approved by the Board.

The ˜nancial results are published in Mint (English) and Daman Ganga Times.
   
The Company™s results, of˜cial news releases and presentations made to Institutional Investors/ Analysts, 
if any, are displayed on the Company™s website 
www.nilkamal.com
.
 Further, the said results are also 
e-mailed to the shareholders on their registered e-mail IDs.

The Annual Report is circulated to all members, and is also available on the Company™s website.

A Management Discussion and Analysis report is a part of this Annual Report.
 
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
 
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
Date & Time
August 4, 2021 at 11.00 a.m.
Venue
The Company is conducting meeting through VC / OAVM
pursuant to the MCA Circular dated May 5, 2020 & January 13, 2021 and 
as such there is no requirement to have a venue for the AGM. For details 
please refer to the Notice of this AGM
Financial Year
April 1 to March 31
Financial Calendar
Financial Year: April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022
Results for Quarter ending :
June 30, 2021
Before August 14, 2021.
September 30, 2021
Before November 14, 2021.
December 31, 2021
Before February 14, 2022.
March 31, 2022
Before May 30, 2022.
Date of Book Closure
From July 29, 2021 to August 4, 2021 (both days inclusive)
Dividend payment date
Between August 7, 2021 to August 21, 2021.
Listing on Stock Exchanges
1.
  
The BSE Limited
  
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai 400001.
2.
  
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
  
Exchange Plaza, 5
th
 Floor, Plot No. C/1, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (East), Mumbai 400051.
Stock Code
1.
 
The BSE Limited Œ 523385
2.
  
National Stock Exchange of India Limited Œ NILKAMAL
Demat ISIN in NSDL and CDSL 
for Equity Shares
INE310A01015
Corporate Identi˜cation 
Number (CIN)
L25209DN1985PLC000162
  
The Company has paid the Annual Listing fees to each of the above Stock Exchanges, for the Financial Year 
2020-2021.
 
Market Price Data
BSE Limited
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Month
High(
`)
Low(
`)
Month
High(
`)
Low(
`)
April, 2020
1,190.35
918.00
April, 2020
1,215.00
915.00
May, 2020
1,097.00
969.50
May, 2020
1,080.00
965.50
June, 2020
1,199.00
1,014.00
June, 2020
1,197.00
1,010.15
July, 2020
1,345.00
1,094.00
July, 2020
1,347.00
1,120.00
August, 2020
1,439.75
1,199.80
August, 2020
1,440.00
1,196.00
September, 2020
1,360.65
1,214.00
September, 2020
1,360.00
1,218.05
October, 2020
1,348.80
1,258.10
October, 2020
1,346.75
1,258.00
November, 2020
1,412.00
1,242.55
November, 2020
1,400.00
1,240.55
December, 2020
1,632.00
1,350.00
December, 2020
1,633.70
1,371.05
January, 2021
1,596.70
1,425.55
January, 2021
1,600.00
1,424.95
February, 2021
1,985.00
1,479.05
February, 2021
1,988.50
1,470.05
March, 2021
2071.60
1,780.00
March, 2021
2,073.95
1,780.00
  
Performance in comparison to broad-based indices such as BSE Sensex Share Price Movement 
during each month of the ˜nancial year 2020-2021*
 
* Sources 
www.bseindia.com
.
 
Registrar and Transfer Agents and Share Transfer System
  
M/s. Link Intime India Private Limited (Link Intime),
 
C-101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli West, Mumbai: 
400083; Tel: 022-49186270, Fax: 022-49186060, Email: 
rnt
.helpdesk@link
intime.co.in
 are the Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agents for physical shares of the Company. They are also the depository interface of the Company 
with both National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL).
 
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING AS ON MARCH 31, 2021
No. of equity 
shares held
No. of 
Shareholders
% of 
Shareholders
No. of 
 
shares held
% of 
Shareholding
1-500
24,931
97.71
944,573
6.33
501 to 1000
268
1.05
204,103
1.36
1001 to 2000
153
0.60
229,206
1.54
2001 to 3000
49
0.19
119,374
0.80
3001 to 4000
12
0.05
40,294
0.27
4001 to 5000
16
0.06
72,945
0.49
5001 to 10000
32
0.12
223,785
1.50
10001 and above
55
0.22
13,088,245
87.71
Total
25,516
100.00
14,922,525
100.00
Corporate Governance Report
50
 
Shareholding Pattern as on March 31, 2021
Category
No. of Shareholders
Voting Strength (%)
No. of shares
Promoter and Promoter Group
17
64.53
9,629,446
Mutual Funds
7
17.91
2,672,245
Alternate Investment Funds
3
0.22
33,414
Foreign Portfolio Investor
35
2.07
309,566
Financial Institution / Bank
1
0.00
300
Body Corporate
199
1.65
246,306
Public & Others
24,848
13.62
2031248
Total
25,110
100
14,922,525
 
 

Note: As per the SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2017/128 dated December 19, 2017, the number of 
shareholders mentioned here are consolidated on a PAN basis.
 
Dematerialisation of shares and liquidity
  
99.27% of the Company™s Share Capital is dematerialised as on March 31, 2021. The Company™s shares are 
regularly traded on the BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
  
Outstanding GDRs/ ADRs/ Warrants or any Convertible Instruments, conversion date and likely 
impact on equity
 
As on date, the Company has not issued GDRs, ADRs or any other Convertible Instruments.
 
Plant Locations
  
The Company™s plants are located at Barjora (West Bengal), Bhiwandi and Sinnar (Maharashtra), Hosur 
(Tamilnadu), Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir), Kharadpada and Vasona (Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar 
Haveli), Noida (Uttar Pradesh) and Puducherry (Puducherry).
 
Address for Correspondence
 
Investors can communicate at the following addresses:
 
1.
 
Ms. Priti P. Dave Œ Company Secretary
  
 Nilkamal Limited
  
 Nilkamal House,
  
 77/78, Road No. 13/14, MIDC,
  
 Andheri-East, Mumbai 400 093.
  
 Tel:- 022-42358888 Fax:- 022-26818080
  
 E-mail:- 
investor@nilkamal.com
 
2.
 
M/s. Link Intime India Private Limited
  
Registrar and Transfer Agents
  
C-101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg,
  
Vikhroli West, Mumbai : 400083
  
Tel: 022-49186270, Fax: 022-49186060
  
Email: 
rnt
.helpdesk@link
intime.co.in
 
Credit Ratings
 
The Credit Ratings of the Company for all the debt instruments as on March 31, 2021 is as below:-
Bank Facilities
Rating
Long Term Bank Facilities
CARE AA; Stable (Double A)
Short Term Bank Facilities
CARE A1+ (A One Plus)
Commercial Paper (CP) 
$
(Craved out)
CARE A1+ (A One Plus)
 
$
 craved out of the sanctioned working capital limits of the Company
MANAGING DIRECTOR™S DECLARATION FOR COMPLIANCE WITH CODE OF CONDUCT
To the Members of
NILKAMAL LIMITED
I hereby con˜rm that all the members of the Board and Senior Management have af˜rmed compliance with the 
Code of Conduct framed by the Company.
For 
Nilkamal Limited
Place: Mumbai
 
Hiten V. Parekh
Date: June 03, 2021
 
 
Managing Director
Corporate Governance Report
51
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
The Members,
Nilkamal Limited
Survey No 354/2 & 354/3,
Silvassa Khanvel Road,
Near Rakholi Bridge,
Village Vasona,
U.T of D & NH, Silvassa Œ 396230
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors 
of Nilkamal Limted having CIN L25209DN1985PLC000162 and having registered of˜ce at Survey No 354/2 & 
354/3, Silvassa Khanvel Road, Near Rakholi Bridge, Village Vasona, U.T of D & NH, Silvassa Œ 396230 (hereinafter 
referred to as ‚the Company™), produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certi˜cate, in 
accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the veri˜cations (including Directors 
Identi˜cation Number (DIN) status at the portal 
www.mca.gov.in
) as considered necessary and explanations 
furnished to us by the Company and its of˜cers, We hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the 
Company as stated below for the Financial Year ending on 31
st
 March, 2021 have been debarred or disquali˜ed 
from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such other Statutory Authority:
DIN
Name of the Directors
Date of Appointment
00037550
Mr. Hiten Vamanrai Parekh
9
th
 December, 1985
00035747
Mr. Sharad Vrajlal Parekh
14
th
 June, 1990
00123243
Mr. Mahendra Vasantrai Doshi
3
rd
 December, 1990
00037597
Mr. Nayan Sharad Parekh
1
st
 April, 2000
00037724
Mr. Manish Vamanrai Parekh
1
st
 April, 2000
00058467
Mr. Kuttalam Rajagopalan Ramamoorthy
31
st
 October, 2003
03409798
Mr. Mufazzal Saifuddin Federal
25
th
 January, 2011
01723670
Mr. Sarvadaman Krishnarao Palekar
17
th
 April, 2012
06992518
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
6
th
 November, 2014
00001647
Mr. Krishnamurti Venkataramanan
5
th
 November, 2016
07308466
Mr. Mihir Hiten Parekh
1
st
 February, 2020
Note:
 Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh (DIN: 00037519) ceased to be Chairman and Non-Executive Director w.e.f. the close of the 
business hours on 14
th
 August, 2020 and was appointed as Chairman Emeritus w.e.f. 15
th
 August, 2020.
Ensuring the eligibility of for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of 
the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the bases of our veri˜cation. This 
certi˜cate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the ef˜ciency or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
PRATIK M. SHAH
Company Secretaries
FCS No.: 7431; CP No.: 7401
Place: Mumbai
 
PU No. 755/2020
Date:  May 25, 2021
 
UDIN: F007431C000367417
Corporate Governance Report
52
MANAGING DIRECTOR / CFO CERTIFICATION
We the undersigned, in our respective capacities as Managing Director and Chief Financial Of˜cer of Nilkamal 
Limited (ﬁthe Companyﬂ) to the best of our knowledge and belief certify that:
(a)
  
We have reviewed Financial Statements and the Cash Flow Statement for the year ended March
 
31, 2021 and 
that to the best of our knowledge and belief:
 
i)
  
These statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain 
statements that might be misleading;
 
ii)
  
These statements together present a true and fair view of the Company's affairs and are in compliance 
with existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
(b)
  
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the 
year which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company's Code of Conduct.
(c)
  
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining Internal Controls for ˜nancial reporting and that 
we have evaluated the effectiveness of Internal Control systems of the Company pertaining to ˜nancial 
reporting and we have disclosed to the Auditors and the Audit Committee, de˜ciencies in the design or 
operation of such Internal Controls, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose 
to take to rectify these de˜ciencies.
(d)
 
We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee, if any;
 
i)
  
Signi˜cant changes in the Internal Control over ˜nancial reporting during the year ended March 31, 
2021;
 
ii)
  
Signi˜cant changes in accounting polices during the year ended March 31, 2021 and that the same have 
been disclosed in the notes to the Financial Statements; and
 
iii)
 
 
 

Instances of signi˜cant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of 
the management or an employee having a signi˜cant role in the Company's Internal Control System 
over ˜nancial reporting.
         
For Nilkamal Limited 
 
 
     
For Nilkamal Limited
Date: June 03, 2021
Place: Mumbai
         
Hiten V. Parekh 
       
Paresh B. Mehta
         
Managing Director 
      
Chief Financial Of˜cer
Corporate Governance Report
53
Corporate Governance Report
Independent Auditors™ Certi˜cate on Compliance with the Corporate Governance requirements 
under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
To the Members of Nilkamal Limited
1.
  
This certi˜cate is issued in accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated 28
 
February 2019 and 
addendum to the engagement letter dated 14 April 2021.
2.
  
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Nilkamal Limited (ﬁthe 
Companyﬂ), for the year ended 31 March 2021, as stipulated in regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of 
regulation 46(2) and paragraphs C, D and E of Schedule V of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended from time to time (ﬁListing 
Regulationsﬂ) pursuant to the Listing Agreement of the Company with Stock Exchanges.
 
Management™s Responsibility for compliance with the conditions of Listing Regulations
3.
  
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated under the listing regulations is the 
responsibility of the Company™s Management including the preparation and maintenance of all the relevant 
records and documents. This responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of internal 
control and procedures to ensure the compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance stipulated in 
the Listing Regulations.
 
Auditors™ Responsibility
4.
  
Our examination was limited to procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for 
ensuring the compliance of the conditions of the Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an 
expression of opinion on the ˜nancial statements of the Company.
5.
  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, it is our responsibility to provide a reasonable 
assurance whether the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in 
Listing Regulations for the year ended 31 March 2021.
6.
  
We conducted our examination of the above corporate governance compliance by the Company in accordance 
with the Guidance Note on Reports or Certi˜cates for Special Purposes (Revised 2016) and Guidance Note 
on Certi˜cation of Corporate Governance both issued by the Institute of the Chartered Accountants of India 
(the ﬁICAIﬂ), in so far as applicable for the purpose of this certi˜cate. The Guidance Note requires that we 
comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
7.
  
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, 
Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other 
Assurance and Related Services Engagements.
 
Opinion
8.
  
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according to explanations given to us, we certify that 
the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the above-mentioned 
Listing Regulations.
9.
  
We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the ef
-
˜ciency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
 
Restriction on use
10.
  
The certi˜cate is addressed and provided to the Members of the Company solely for the purpose of enabling 
the Company to comply with the requirement of the Listing Regulations and should not be used by any other 
person or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this certi˜cate is shown or into whose hands it may 
come without our prior consent in writing.
 For 
B S R & Co LLP
 
Chartered Accountant
s
 
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Mumbai
 
Membership No. 402877
03 June 2021
 
 ICAI 
UDIN
: 21402877AAAADH1535
54
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
INDUSTRY STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES, THREATS, RISKS, CONCERNS AND OUTLOOK:-
The ˜scal year 2020-21 has been the worst year for the Indian economy. India™s GDP is contracted by around eight 
per cent on account of the 68-day nation-wide lockdown which was imposed on
 
March 25, 2020 to prevent the 
spread of Covid-19 infections.
The Indian economy is expected to grow by more than eight per cent in ˜nancial year 2021-22 as per various 
institutional estimates. Favorable factors like consistent agricultural performance, increase in government 
spending, reforms and an ef˜cient roll-out of the vaccine is likely to keep the country on the growth trajectory. 
The only dampener is the surge in Covid-19 in the ˜rst quarter of the current year that could affect public 
consumption of products and services.
Plastic Division
The Plastic Business exhibited a volume & value growth of 21% & 16% respectively during H2 FY20-21 which has 
largely offset the covid induced negative impact of H1FY20-21, ultimately resulting in an overall volume & value 
de-growth of 2 % and 7 % respectively during the Financial Year 2020-21. Thus it has achieved total turnover of 
`
 1731 Cr. as compared to 
`
 1866 Cr. in the previous year.
The revival process post pandemic one in a way, tested the fundamentals of all businesses particularly the supply 
chain system, the ability to ramp up production amidst restrictions, ef˜cient working capital management, 
and the inherent strength of the distribution network. Nilkamal Furniture division not only bounced back to 
normalcy in a deft and agile manner, but also registered a growth of over 14% between July,2020 to March,2021 
over the corresponding period of the previous ˜nancial year. This helped the division to register 95% of the 
previous year™s top-line ˜gure, covering a majority of the lost ground. The Furniture business focusses on three 
major verticals i.e. Moulded Furniture, Ready Furniture & Mattress.
 
The 
Moulded Furniture business
 in a series of market friendly decisions such as additional cash discounts to 
support the channel partners to manage their cash ˚ow, immediate replenishment of stocks to reduce inventory 
carrying cost and additional incentives to increase their market penetration, helped the Company to get back to 
the growth trajectory from 2
nd
 quarter onwards. Through the course of the pandemic the company successfully 
launched six new products which were all well accepted and also contributed to the overall revenue. The 
company consciously focussed on expanding its footprints by penetrating new dealers and gaining shelf space 
by adding new product lines in existing counters. The company plans to keep up this momentum in FY 2021-22 
by introducing a range of differentiated products in the chair and storage segments to ˜ll in product gaps and 
gain market share.
The 
Ready Furniture business
 dominated by the unorganised sector witnessed a structural damage to the 
business due to working capital issues, challenges around imports and a mass exodus of labour. The organized 
sector also got affected by shortage of imports, high sea freight, subsequent price increases and intermittent 
closure of retail showrooms. In this segment the company could recover 88% of the previous year™s revenue by 
adding new franchise and launching new products especially in the work from home segments. The company 
added 17 new franchise showrooms in the last ˜nancial year taking the total count to 62 company owned 
showrooms and franchise outlets. The company plans to appoint additional 30 franchisees in targeted towns 
during the ˜nancial year 2021-22. During the pandemic your company were quick to introduce various work-
from-home products in the computer table, study table and of˜ce chair product segments which were well 
accepted by the trade. Many institutions also initiated a tie-up to buy these products for their employees. 
Further the Company innovated & introduced several Covid-19 product such as Quick covid bed, Isolation Bed, 
Quarantine bed & special mattress for covid isolation center.
In the 
Mattress segment
 the company registered a 29% growth over last year with the maximum growth 
coming from the foam mattress segment. The reason for this growth has been a gain in market share from 
both the organised and the unorganised sector in various geographies, increased reach and penetration and 
through the introduction of new products. During the last FY, the company introduced seven new products, all 
of which were well accepted by the trade and helped us to add 18% to our top-line. The company shall continue 
with the growth momentum and the focus would be in increasing reach & penetration on a pan India basis and 
developing differentiated products.
Further, Nilkamal Ltd introduced a holistic sleep solutions brand Œ Doctor Dreams. The brand offers a variety of 
products, solutions and digital experiences including innovative Mattresses, Mattress Protectors, Pillows, beds 
and more that can be accessed by consumers at their convenience, at the click of a button! With an innovative 
design that comes packed in a box, Doctor Dreams mattresses are the embodiment of the brand™s proposition, 
‚Happy Sleep Delivered.™
In the current ˜scal, the company is geared to expand the manufacturing footprint especially in metal, sofa and 
panel board manufacturing at Hosur. The distribution base spread across every district of our country will expand 
the brand salience to remote rural markets, and this coupled with our ability to manage a complex supply chain 
at lower costs as compared to the industry norms would be our clear ﬁright to winﬂ and help the division clock 
Management Discussion and Analysis
55
a consistent double-digit growth in the coming years. The strong network of over 40 plus depots and nearly 300 
plus sales staff assisted by a robust technology support system and multi locational production facilities will help 
us in not only enhancing market penetration but also improving our timely ˜ll rate to the general/modern trade 
and E-Commerce channels across the country.
Nilkamal™s focus on the three key verticals i.e. Moulded furniture, Ready Furniture and Mattress has helped us to 
develop a unique business model leveraging the strength of our distribution network, making it easier for them to 
develop a lifetime customer horizon across their purchase journey of home improvement needs. This in a way is a 
winning solution for the channel partners as it takes care of their aspiration of both top-line growth and pro˜tability.
There has been a price increase in raw material in all segments which as manufacturers we were compelled to 
pass on and has resulted in an increase of ˜nished goods prices and this can affect the demand in the short & 
medium term. There is a danger of second and third wave of Covid which coupled with the in˚ationary trend 
can lead to uncertainty and be dampener to the business projections.
The year 2020-21 proved a challenging year for 
BubbleGUARD
 with sales muted in the ˜rst half due to the 
pandemic restrictions. Key dealers and distributors were closed and orders for packaging were delayed or suspended 
as demand fell. However in H2 40% sales growth helped in achieving a growth of 6% over ˜nancial year.
BubbleGUARD responded by quick innovation of new products to address COVID concerns through the Quick 
Covid Bed, VirusGUARD, TravelGUARD and Body Management Box etc.
Material Handling Business
We continued our organic growth strategy in the material handling businesses by helping customers protect 
their products, increase storage, and improve productivity while enhancing safety & hygiene.
The ˜nancial year 2020-21, dominated by the COVID-19 pandemic affected the entire business landscape not 
just in India, but the entire world. Listing down key excerpts of FY 2020-21 in resonance with the Management 
Discussion Analysis of FY 2019-20:
SURVIVE: Successive nation-wide lockdowns for many months in FY 2020-21 during the pandemic disrupted 
economic activity in almost all sectors. This saw domestic demand plummet sharply with some exceptions which 
saw high growth, such as essential sectors like Dairies, Fruits & vegetables, Fisheries, etc. We geared up our 
production facilities to meet the material handling requirements of these sectors, successfully.
The period saw us successfully adopting new strategies - cash conservation, revamping infrastructure, manpower 
rationalisation, supply chain resilience, etc. each overhaul was done keeping its long term effects in sight.
REVIVE: As soon as the unlock phases began, marketing and sales activities were taken up a notch, and connect 
with our customers refreshed. Industrial activities in different belts were closely monitored, and we were ready 
with solutions to help customers manage their material handling challenges ef˜ciently and smartly, more so 
when labour and transport operations were still unstable.
Healthcare, Pharmaceuticals, Ecommerce, Food processing, Dairy and FMCG, Sanitation and Hygiene sectors saw 
a big surge. We were absolutely ready for the surge and supplied crates, smart boxes, containers with RFID tags, 
hygiene pallets, metal racking solutions and material handling equipment, products for hygienic food transport 
and service, industrial cleaning equipment, waste collection & disposal bins. We were quick with supplies of 
vaccine carriers and cold boxes for the mega vaccination drive by the Government.
A serious dampener in FY 2020-21 was very high and unpredictable hikes in crude prices, impacting polymer 
prices and sea freight. This coupled with the slowdown in economic activity in the ˜rst quarter have led to lesser 
sales this year as compared to the previous year. However, with conscientious monitoring and strategizing, we 
were able to keep our sales pro˜table.
THRIVE: The COVID-19 pandemic has brought major shifts in consumer behaviour; to adapt to these, industries 
and supply chains have had to reshape their operation methods. With the pandemic still spreading, labour and 
transport operations are not yet stabilised. All these continue to bring in more material handling challenges to 
industries in terms of safe vertical storage, smart retrieval and swift movement.
Expansion plans are underway for production of injection moulded pallets in our plant in Hosur in the South. Capacity 
expansion for pallets in our plant in Jammu in the North is simultaneously being worked on. By doing so, we will be 
the only company with production facilities pan India, for both roto moulded and injection moulded pallets.
FY 20-21 saw us commission our 2nd racking & shelving plant in Sinnar which is off to a great start, and helps us 
more than double our capacity to quicken delivery times.
With the boom in e-commerce, our special association with e-commerce companies is giving us good business in 
all verticals. We are also working with them for special projects involving customised solutions to help with their 
operations.
Though rising raw material prices and disruptions due to uncertainty of the pandemic will continue to pose 
challenges to revenue growth and pro˜tability, we believe many smaller competitors will not be able to withstand 
the impact of these two factors, which will further boost the market™s con˜dence in us. Also, with the pandemic 
Management Discussion and Analysis
56
still spreading and of˚ine meetings getting more dif˜cult, industries are preferring one vendor for their material 
handling needs, rather than multiple vendors. Our diversi˜ed offerings, wider reach, solution based approach 
and brand value is making us their preferred supplier.
The 
Lifestyle Furniture, Furnishing and Accessories Division (@home)
 registered a revenue of 
` 
157 Crs in 
 
FY 2020-21. The performance came in the background of a very tough market condition where the ˜rst quarter 
was completely washed out due to lockdown followed by challenges in importing ˜nished goods during the 
 
2
nd
 half of the year with lockdown in most southeast Asian countries. @home registered E commerce business 
worth of 
`
 32.90 Crs. At the end of the Financial year, @home had 27 stores across India with a total retail space 
of 3.4 lac 
sq.ft
. 3 new franchisee stores were added in the year taking the total count to 9. The brand ventured 
into 3 new markets, namely, Thrissur, Amritsar and Delhi (Kirtinagar) in FY 20-21. The balance 18 stores are on 
leased and operated by the company.
@home will continue to increase its of˚ine reach through new stores with existing and new franchisee partners 
across major smart cities in India. The ˜rst 5 new store for FY 21-22 is already lined up in Hubli, Shimoga, 
Hyderabad, Erode and Hosur & expected to be operational by August, 2021. Another 5 stores are also planned for 
the year. The 10 new stores will add another 80,000 sqft to the brands of˚ine presence. The brand will continue 
to focus on the ecommerce business by continuously improving the user experience, transforming the supply 
chain and IT infrastructure and reaching out to a much wider audience set with a curated product offering. 
Further manufacturing capabilities are being built in-house & this will help the brand to further customise the 
offering to suit Indian customer preference.
Financial Review
The signi˜cant changes in the ˜nancial ratios of the Company, which are more than 25% as compared to the 
previous year are summarized below:-
Ratio
Particulars
Financial 
Year 20-21
Financial 
Year 19-20
Change (%)
Reason for change
 Debt-Equity
Standalone
 0.04
 0.07
-37%
Improvement in Ratio due to lower 
borrowing /repayment of long-term 
loan
Consolidated
 0.04
 0.06
-34
 Inventory Turnover
Standalone
 88 days
 65 days
36%
High Inventory built up was made to 
mitigate supply chain risk as well as 
increasing price trend resulted into 
higher inventory turnover ration.
Consolidated
87 days
66 days
32%
Change in Return on Net Worth :
Due to lower pro˜t in current ˜nancial year the return on Net worth on standalone basis has decreased from 
13.28% of previous ˜nancial year to 10.31% in current ˜nancial year. while on consolidated basis the same has 
been decreased from 14.44% to 10.42%.
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND THEIR ADEQUACY
At the beginning of ˜nancial year, an annual audit plan is rolled out after it is approved by the Audit Committee 
of the Board. The annual audit plan aims to evaluate the ef˜cacy and adequacy of multi-level internal controls 
placed by the Company and compliance(s) thereof. This controls provide reasonable assurance regarding 
effectiveness and ef˜ciency of operation, safeguarding of assets, prevention and detections of frauds and error, 
accuracy and timely preparation of reliable ˜nancial information.
Based on the approved internal audit plan, internal audit department with the help of external professional 
agencies carry out periodic internal audits across all locations, enabling identi˜cation of areas where the internal 
processes, policies and accounting procedures may need to be strengthened. Signi˜cant audit observations and 
corrective action plans are presented to the Audit Committee.
Basis their assessment, management is of the opinion that your Company maintained effective internal control 
over Financial reporting.
Human Resources and Industrial Relations
Your Company™s industrial relations continued to be harmonious during the year under review. The employee 
strength of your Company is currently 2939.
Cautionary Statement
The Management Discussions and Analysis Statement made above are on the basis of available data as well as 
certain assumptions as to the economic conditions, various factors affecting raw material prices, selling prices, trend 
and consumer demand and preference, governing and applicable laws and other economic and political factors. 
The management cannot guarantee the accuracy of the assumptions and projected performance of the Company 
in future. It is therefore, cautioned that the actual results may differ from those expressed and implied therein.
Management Discussion and Analysis
57
Independent Auditors™ Report
To the Members of Nilkamal Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We 
have audited the standalone ˜nancial statements of Nilkamal Limited (ﬁthe
 
Companyﬂ), which comprise 
the standalone Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2021, and the standalone Statement of Pro˜t and Loss (including 
Other Comprehensive Income), standalone Statement of Changes in Equity and standalone Statement of Cash 
Flows for the year
 
then
 
ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements, including a summary of 
the signi˜cant accounting policies
 
and other explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid 
standalone ˜nancial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (ﬁActﬂ) in the manner 
so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in 
India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31 March 2021, and pro˜t and other comprehensive income, 
changes in equity and its cash ˚ows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) speci˜ed under section 143(10) 
of the Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in the ‚Auditor™s Responsibilities for the 
Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements™ section of our report. We are independent of the Company in 
accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the 
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the 
standalone 
˜nancial statements under the provisions 
of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have ful˜lled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suf˜cient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the Standalone ˜nancial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most signi˜cance in our audit 
of the standalone ˜nancial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of 
our audit of the standalone ˜nancial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not 
provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Description of Key Audit Matters
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
Revenue recognition
(Refer to Signi˜cant Accounting Policy 
Note 33(m) and Note 25 in the standalone 
˜nancial statements)
Revenue of the Company mainly comprises of 
sale of material handling products and plastic 
moulded furniture to its customers.
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised 
when control is transferred to the customers.
There is a risk of revenue being overstated on 
account of variation in the timing of transfer 
of control due to the pressure to achieve 
performance targets at the reporting period 
end.
Accordingly, timing of recognition of revenue 
is a key audit matter.
In view of the signi˜cance of the matter we applied the following 
audit procedures in this area, among others to obtain suf˜cient 
appropriate audit evidence
:
a.
  
Evaluating the Company™s accounting policies for revenue 
recognition, in terms of applicable accounting standards
b.
  
Testing the design, implementation and operating 
effectiveness of the Company™s general IT controls and key 
IT/manual application controls. These are in respect of the 
Company™s systems which govern timing of recognition of 
revenue including creation of new customers in the system.
c.
  
Performing testing on selected statistical samples of customer 
contracts. Checked terms and conditions related to acceptance 
of goods, acknowledged delivery receipts and tested the transit 
time to deliver the goods and its revenue recognition. Our tests 
of details focused on 
substantive testing. It included year-end 
cut-off testing. We carried out audit procedures by selecting 
samples of revenue transactions recorded during the 
year and before and after the ˜nancial year end. We also 
selected samples of one off sales to customers, by verifying 
the underlying documents such as sales invoices/contracts 
and shipping documents.
d.
  
Performing substantive testing by verifying statistical 
samples of credit notes with underlying sales invoice and 
delivery documents.
e.
  
Assessing manual journal entries posted to revenue on 
sample basis to identify unusual items of revenue recorded 
in the current year.
Independent Auditors™ Report
58
Information Other than the Standalone Financial Statements and Auditors™ Report Thereon
The Company™s management and Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other 
information comprises the information included in the Company™s annual report, but does not include the 
˜nancial statements and our auditors™ report thereon.
Our opinion on the standalone ˜nancial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express 
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone ˜nancial statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the 
standalone ˜nancial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially 
misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this 
other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Management's and Board of Directors™ Responsibility for the Standalone Financial Statements
The Company™s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of 
the Act with respect to the preparation of these standalone ˜nancial statements that give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs, pro˜t and other comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash ˚ows of the Company 
in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) speci˜ed under section 133 of the Act. This responsibility also includes maintenance of 
adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of 
the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal ˜nancial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation 
of the standalone ˜nancial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone ˜nancial statements, the Management and Board of Directors are responsible for 
assessing the Company™s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate 
the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the Company™s ˜nancial reporting process.
Auditor™s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone
 
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
standalone 
˜nancial statements as a 
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
 
or error, and to issue an auditor™s report 
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can 
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably 
be expected to in˚uence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
standalone 
˜nancial 
statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:

to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is suf˜cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.

appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing 
our opinion on whether the company has adequate internal ˜nancial controls with reference to ˜nancial 
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.

and related disclosures in the standalone ˜nancial statements made by the Management and Board of 
Directors.

of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related 
to events or conditions that may cast signi˜cant doubt on the Company™s ability to continue as a going 
concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor™s 
Independent Auditors™ Report
59
report to the related disclosures in the standalone ˜nancial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, 
to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor™s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a 
going concern.

the disclosures, and whether the standalone ˜nancial statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and signi˜cant audit ˜ndings, including any signi˜cant de˜ciencies in internal control that 
we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that 
may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most signi˜cance in the audit of the standalone ˜nancial statements of the current period and are therefore the 
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors™ report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not 
be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to 
outweigh the public interest bene˜ts of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.
  
As required by the Companies (Auditors™ Report) Order, 2016 (ﬁthe Orderﬂ) issued by the Central Government 
in terms of section 143 (11) of the Act, we give in the ﬁAnnexure Aﬂ a statement on the matters speci˜ed in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
2.
 
(A)
 
 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
  
a)
  
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
  
b)
  
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far 
as it appears from our examination of those books.
  
c)
  
The standalone Balance Sheet, the standalone Statement of Pro˜t and Loss (including Other 
Comprehensive Income), the standalone Statement of Changes in Equity and the standalone 
Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account.
  
d)
  
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone ˜nancial statements comply with the Ind AS speci˜ed under 
section 133 of the Act.
  
e)
  
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31 March 2021 taken 
on record by the Board of Directors, none of the directors is disquali˜ed as on 31 March 2021 from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
  
f)
  
With respect to the adequacy of the internal ˜nancial controls with reference to standalone ˜nancial 
statements of the Company and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
Report in ﬁAnnexure Bﬂ.
 
(B)
  
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors™ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
  
i.
  
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 2021 on its ˜nancial 
position in its standalone ˜nancial statements - Refer Note 34 (a) to the standalone ˜nancial 
statements.
  
ii.
  
The Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there 
were any material foreseeable losses.
  
iii.
  
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund by the Company.
  
iv.
  
The disclosures in the standalone ˜nancial statements regarding holdings as well as dealings in speci˜ed 
bank notes during the period from 8 November 2016 to 30 December 2016 have not been made in these 
˜nancial statements since they do not pertain to the ˜nancial year ended 31 March 2021.
Auditor™s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Annual Financial Results 
(Continued)
Independent Auditors™ Report
60
 
(C)
 
With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditors™ Report under section 197(16):
   
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by 
the company to its directors during the current year is in accordance with the provisions of Section 197 
of the Act. The remuneration paid to any director is not in excess of the limit laid down under Section 
197 of the Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not prescribed other details under Section 197(16) 
which are required to be commented upon by us.
 For 
B S R & Co LLP
 
Chartered Accountant
s
 
Firm's Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Mumbai
 
Membership No. 402877
03 June 2021
 
 ICAI 
UDIN
: 21402877AAAADF5538
Annexure A to the Independent Auditors™ Report Œ 31 March 2021
With reference to the Annexure A referred to in the Independent Auditors™ Report to the members of the 
Company on the standalone ˜nancial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021, we report the following:
(i)
 
(a)
  
The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details 
and situation of ˜xed assets.
 
(b)
  
The Company has a regular programme of physical veri˜cation of its ˜xed assets by which the 
˜xed assets are veri˜ed by the management according to a phased programme designed to cover 
all the items over a period of three years. In our opinion, this periodicity of physical veri˜cation is 
reasonable having regard to the size of the Company and the nature of its assets. In accordance with 
the programme, the Company has physically veri˜ed certain ˜xed assets during the year and we are 
informed that no material discrepancies were noticed on such veri˜cation.
 
(c) 
  
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of 
the records of the Company, the title deeds of immovable properties as disclosed in Note 1 to the 
standalone ˜nancial statements, are held in the name of the Company other than those disclosed in 
the table below:
Asset class
No of 
cases
Gross Block 
(Rs in Lakhs)
Net block 
(Rs in Lakhs)
Remarks
Freehold land
1
0.68
0.68
Pending completion of the relevant 
formalities of some of the ˜xed assets 
which vested in the Company pursuant 
to the scheme of amalgamation, such 
assets continue to be in the name of the 
erstwhile amalgamated companies.
Buildings
23
224.66
197.96
(ii)
  
The inventory, except for goods in transit and stocks lying with third parties, has been physically veri˜ed by 
the management at reasonable intervals during the year. In our opinion, the frequency of such veri˜cation 
is reasonable. In respect of stocks lying with third parties at the year-end, written con˜rmations have been 
obtained. The discrepancies noticed on veri˜cation between the physical stocks and the book records were 
not material and have been adequately dealt with in books of account.
(iii)
  
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not 
granted any loans, secured or unsecured, to companies, ˜rms, limited liability partnerships or other parties 
covered in the register maintained under Section 189 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‚the Act™). Accordingly, 
paragraph 3 (iii) of the Order are not applicable to the Company.
(iv)
  
In our opinion and according to the information and explanation given to us, the Company has not granted 
any loans during the year or provided any guarantees or security to the parties covered under Section 
185 of the Act. The Company has complied with the provisions of Section 186 of the Act in respect of the 
investments made by the Company.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
(Continued)
Independent Auditors™ Report
61
(v)
  
In our opinion, and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not 
accepted deposits from public in accordance with provisions of Sections 73 to 76 or any other relevant 
provisions of the Act and the rules framed thereunder. Accordingly, paragraph 3(v) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
(vi)
  
We have broadly reviewed the books of account maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules 
prescribed by the Central Government for maintenance of cost records under Section 148 (1) of the Act and 
are of the opinion that prima facie, the prescribed accounts and records have been made and maintained. 
However, we have not made a detailed examination of the records with a view to determine whether they 
are accurate or complete.
(vii)
 
(a)
  
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, amounts deducted/accrued in the books of account in respect of undisputed 
statutory dues including Provident fund, Employees™ State Insurance, Income-tax, Goods and Service 
tax, Duty of Customs, Cess and other material statutory dues have been generally regularly deposited 
during the year by the Company with the appropriate authorities.
   
According to the information and explanations given to us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect 
of Provident fund, Employees™ State Insurance, Income-tax, Sales-tax, Goods and Service tax, Service 
tax, Duty of Customs, Duty of Excise, Value added tax, Cess and other material statutory dues were in 
arrears as at 31
 
March 2021 for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
 
(b)
  
According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no dues of Income-tax, Sales tax, 
Service tax, Duty of Customs, Duty of Excise and Value added tax as at 31 March 2021 which have not 
been deposited with the appropriate authorities on account of any dispute, except as stated below:
Name of the 
statute
Nature of 
dues
Amount *
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Period to which the 
amount relates
Forum where the dispute is 
pending
Central Sales Tax 
Act and Local 
Sales Tax of 
various states
Central Sales 
Tax and Local 
Sales Tax 
(including 
Value Added 
Tax)
-
2001-2002 to 2004-2005
Supreme Court
0.26
2010-11
Commercial Tax Of˜cer
26.13
2012-2013 to 2014-2015
Excise and Taxation of˜cer
22.57
2012-2013, 2013-14
Commissioner Œ Appeals
5.35
2015-16
Additional Commissioner Œ 
Appeals
47.37
2017-18
High Court
33.94
2015-16 and 2017-18
Deputy Commissoner (VAT)
Central Excise Act, 
1944
Excise Duty
72.22
June 2009 to 
 
September 2014
Commissioner ŒAppeals
10.17
2008-2013
Commissioner ŒAppeals
32.31
October 2014 to 
 
March 2015
Customs Excise & Service tax 
Appellate tribunal (ﬁCESTATﬂ)
39.88
April 2015 to 
 
December 2015
Customs Excise & Service tax 
Appellate tribunal (ﬁCESTATﬂ)
30.36
April 2013 to 
 
September 2014
Customs Excise & Service tax 
Appellate tribunal (ﬁCESTATﬂ)
74.95
January 2016 to 
 
June 2017
Commissioner Œ Appeals
11.93
April 2016 to June 2017
Commissioner Œ Appeals
Income Tax Act, 
1961
Tax Deducted 
at Source
29.58
2019-20
Commissoner of Income Tax - 
Appeals
*
 Amount is net of payments made under dispute
(viii)
  
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not 
defaulted in repayment of loans or borrowings to banks. The Company does not have any loans or 
borrowings from ˜nancial institutions or government or dues to debenture holders during the year.
(ix)
  
According to the information and explanations give to us and based on our examination of the records of the 
Company, the Company has not raised any moneys by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including 
debt instruments) during the year. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us 
the term loans taken by the Company have been applied for the purposes for which they were raised.
Annexure A to the Independent Auditors™ Report Œ 31 March 2021 
(Continued)
Annexure to Auditors™ Report
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
(Continued)
62
(x)
  
During the course of our examination of the books and records of the Company, carried out in accordance 
with the generally accepted auditing practices in India, and according to the information and explanations 
given to us, we have neither come across any instance of material fraud by the Company or on the Company 
by its of˜cers or employees, noticed or reported during the year, nor have we been informed of any such 
case by the Management.
(xi)
  
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the managerial remuneration 
has been paid or provided in accordance with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of Section 197 
read with Schedule V to the Act.
(xii)
  
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi 
company and the Nidhi Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it. Accordingly, paragraph 3(xii) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
(xiii)
  
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has entered 
into transactions with related parties in compliance with the provisions of Sections 177 and 188 of the Act 
where applicable and the details of such related party transactions have been disclosed in the standalone 
˜nancial statements as required by Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24, Related Party Disclosures 
speci˜ed under Section 133 of the Act, read with relevant rules.
(xiv)
  
According to the information and explanations give to us and based on our examination of the records 
of the Company, the Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or 
fully or partly convertible debentures during the year. Accordingly, paragraph 3(xiv) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
(xv)
  
According to the information and explanations give to us and based on our examination of the records 
of the Company, the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with directors or persons 
connected with them. Accordingly, paragraph 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xvi)
  
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not required 
to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Accordingly, paragraph 3(xvi) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
 For 
B S R & Co LLP
 
Chartered Accountant
s
 
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Mumbai
 
Membership No. 402877
03 June 2021
 
 ICAI 
UDIN
: 21402877AAAADF5538
Annexure B to the Independent Auditors™ report on the standalone ˜nancial statements of Nilkamal 
Limited for the year ended 31 March 2021
Report on the internal ˜nancial controls with reference to the aforesaid standalone ˜nancial 
statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013
(Referred to in paragraph (2(A)(f)) under ‚Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements™ 
section of our report of even date)
Opinion
We have audited the internal ˜nancial controls with reference to standalone ˜nancial statements of Nilkamal 
Limited (ﬁthe Companyﬂ) as of 31 March 2021 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone ˜nancial statements 
of the Company for the year ended on that date.
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal ˜nancial controls with reference to 
standalone ˜nancial statements and such internal ˜nancial controls were operating effectively as at 31
 
March 
2021, based on the internal ˜nancial controls with reference to standalone ˜nancial statements criteria established 
by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit 
of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
(the ﬁGuidance Noteﬂ)
Annexure A to the Independent Auditors™ Report Œ 31 March 2021 
(Continued)
Annexure to Auditors™ Report
63
Management™s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The Company™s management and the Board of Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal 
˜nancial controls based on the internal ˜nancial controls with reference to standalone ˜nancial statements 
criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
˜nancial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and ef˜cient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to company™s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds 
and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
˜nancial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as ﬁthe Actﬂ).
Auditors™ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company™s internal ˜nancial controls with reference to standalone 
˜nancial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and 
the Standards on Auditing, prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of 
internal ˜nancial controls with reference to standalone ˜nancial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance 
Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether adequate internal ˜nancial controls with reference to standalone ˜nancial statements 
were established and maintained and whether such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal ˜nancial 
controls with reference to standalone ˜nancial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal 
˜nancial controls with reference to standalone ˜nancial statements included obtaining an understanding of 
such internal ˜nancial controls, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the 
design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor™s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the standalone ˜nancial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suf˜cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinion on the Company™s internal ˜nancial controls with reference to standalone ˜nancial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial controls with Reference to Standalone Financial Statements
A company™s internal ˜nancial controls with reference to standalone ˜nancial statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of ˜nancial reporting and the preparation of standalone 
˜nancial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
company™s internal ˜nancial controls with reference to standalone ˜nancial statements include those policies 
and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
re˚ect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of standalone ˜nancial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being 
made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition 
of the company™s assets that could have a material effect on the ˜nancial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial controls with Reference to Standalone Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal ˜nancial controls with reference to standalone ˜nancial statements, 
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due 
to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal ˜nancial 
controls with reference to standalone ˜nancial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the 
internal ˜nancial controls with reference to standalone ˜nancial statements may become inadequate because of 
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 For 
B S R & Co LLP
 
Chartered Accountant
s
 
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Mumbai
 
Membership No. 402877
03 June 2021
 
 ICAI 
UDIN
: 21402877AAAADF5538
Annexure to Auditors™ Report
Annexure B to the Independent Auditors™ report on the standalone ˜nancial statements of Nilkamal 
Limited for the year ended 31 March 2021  
(Continued)
64
Standalone Balance Sheet
Standalone Balance Sheet as at 31
st
 March, 2021
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
Note
As at 
 
31
st
 March, 2021
As at 
 
31
st
 March, 2020
I.
ASSETS
1
Non-Current Assets
(a)
Property, Plant and Equipment
1
 58,972.60
 54,164.37
(b)
Capital work-in-Progress
 1,871.30
 2,693.59
(c)
Intangible Assets
1
 93.14
 136.83
(d)
Financial Assets
(i) Investments in Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures
2
 7,644.91
 7,644.91
(ii) Other Investments
3
 43.14
 43.14
(iii) Loans
4
 2,263.79
 2,480.16
(iv) Other Financial Assets
5
 133.67
 378.80
(e)
Other Non-Current Assets
6
 2,487.31
 2,537.31
Total Non-Current Assets
 73,509.86
 70,079.11
2
Current Assets
(a)
Inventories
7
 45,304.76
 36,888.64
(b)
Financial Assets
(i) Investments
8
 1,000.05
 1,513.30
(ii) Trade Receivables
9
 25,743.24
 26,228.38
(iii) Cash and Cash Equivalents
10
 1,159.85
 1,032.85
(iv) Bank Balances other than cash and cash equivalents
11
 5,592.94
 309.58
(v) Loans
12
 797.23
 1,190.79
(vi) Other Financial Assets
13
 1,747.62
 1,491.32
(c)
Current Tax Assets (Net)
 509.82
 803.72
(d)
Other Current Assets
14
 4,545.19
 4,315.07
Total Current Assets
 86,400.70
 73,773.65
 TOTAL ASSETS
 1,59,910.56
 1,43,852.76
II.
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1
Equity
(a)
Equity Share Capital
15
 1,492.25
 1,492.25
(b)
Other Equity
16
 1,03,828.68
 93,866.45
Total Equity
 1,05,320.93
 95,358.70
2
Non-current liabilities
(a)
Financial Liabilities
(i) Borrowings
17
 2,854.05
 4,790.08
(ii) Other Financial Liabilities
18
 21,754.84
 18,222.75
(b)
Provisions
19
 416.96
 480.95
(c)
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net)
20
 850.08
 871.99
Total Non-Current Liabilities
 25,875.93
 24,365.77
3
Current Liabilities
(a)
Financial Liabilities
(i) Trade Payables
 (a) 
 

Total Outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 -
 -
 (b) 
 

Total Outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
21
 17,326.15
 13,453.06
(ii) Other Financial Liabilities
22
 6,534.28
 6,987.61
(b)
Other Current Liabilities
23
 3,776.13
 2,623.62
(c)
Provisions
24
 1,077.14
 1,064.00
Total Current Liabilities
 28,713.70
 24,128.29
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
 1,59,910.56
 1,43,852.76
Signi˜cant accounting policies
33
The notes referred to above form an integral part of the standalone ˜nancial statements.
As per our report of even date attached.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Nilkamal Limited
CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Membership No : 402877
Hiten V. Parekh
Managing Director
DIN : 00037550
Manish V. Parekh
Joint Managing Director
DIN : 00037724
Paresh B. Mehta
Chief Financial Of˜cer
 
Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave
Company Secretary
Membership No : 19469
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
65
Standalone Statement of Pro˜t and Loss
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
Note
Year ended 
 
31
st
 March 2021
Year ended 
 
31
st
 March 2020
I.
Revenue from Operations
25
 1,88,802.58
 2,08,147.38
II.
Other Income
26
 1,448.11
 1,088.74
III.
Total Income (I+II)
 1,90,250.69
 2,09,236.12
IV.
Expenses:
Cost of Materials Consumed
 69,490.63
 67,708.38
Purchases of Stock in Trade
 37,677.49
 45,735.72
Changes in inventories of Finished Goods, Stock in Trade and Work-
in-Progress
27
 (1,839.05)
 805.85
Employee Bene˜ts Expense
28
 15,439.72
 17,537.93
Finance Costs
29
 2,313.70
 2,573.73
Depreciation and Amortisation Expenses
1
 9,266.65
 9,051.14
Other Expenses
30
 43,998.58
 50,003.13
Total Expenses
 1,76,347.72
 1,93,415.88
V.
Pro˜t Before Tax (III-IV)
 13,902.97
 15,820.24
VI.
Tax Expense:
Current Tax
32
 3,712.75
 4,030.00
Deferred Tax (Credit) / Charge
32
 (151.86)
 (410.91)
Total Tax Expenses
 3,560.89
 3,619.09
VII.
Pro˜t for the year (V-VI)
 10,342.08
 12,201.15
VIII.
Other Comprehensive Income:
Items that will not be reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss
Remeasurements of de˜ned bene˜t (asset)
 407.37
 (127.83)
Income Tax effect on above
 (102.53)
 25.66
Items that will be reclassi˜ed subsequently to pro˜t or loss
Effective portion of (losses) on hedging instrument in a cash ˚ow 
hedge
 82.11
 (62.51)
Income Tax effect on above
 (20.67)
 1.90
Other Comprehensive Income for the year, net of income tax
 366.28
 (162.78)
Total Comprehensive Income ( VII + VIII)
 10,708.36
 12,038.37
IX.
Earnings per equity share of 
` 
10 each 
(Previous Year 
`
 10 each)
52
(1) Basic (in 
`
)
 69.31
 81.76
(2) Diluted (in 
`
)
 69.31
 81.76
Signi˜cant accounting policies
33
The notes referred to above form an integral part of the standalone ˜nancial statements.
Standalone Statement of Pro˜t and Loss for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2021
As per our report of even date attached.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Nilkamal Limited
CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Membership No : 402877
Hiten V. Parekh
Managing Director
DIN : 00037550
Manish V. Parekh
Joint Managing Director
DIN : 00037724
Paresh B. Mehta
Chief Financial Of˜cer
 
Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave
Company Secretary
Membership No : 19469
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
66
Standalone Cash Flow Statement
Standalone Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2021
( 
` 
in lakhs)
Year ended
31st March 2021
Year ended
31st March, 2020
A.
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Pro˜t before tax for the year
 13,902.97
 15,820.24
Adjustments for :
Depreciation and amortisation
 9,266.65
 9,051.14
Forex (Pro˜t)/Loss on Forward Contract
 (0.32)
 (34.91)
(Pro˜t) / Loss on sale of Property, Plant and Equipment
 (51.35)
 (302.48)
Non-cash expenses adjustment for Gratuity
 407.37
 (127.83)
Finance Costs
 2,313.70
 2,573.73
Provision for doubtful debts and advances
 234.75
 198.24
Bad Debts Written off
 104.21
 153.94
Interest Income
 (939.80)
 (319.47)
Gain on Cancellation of Lease
 (444.93)
 (36.16)
Provision for Rent Equalisation
 -
 (52.93)
Dividend Income on Equity Securities
 (10.50)
 (205.99)
Pro˜t on valuation of Investment
 (1.54)
 (224.64)
Unrealised Foreign Currency Loss
 (12.70)
 (36.26)
 10,865.54
 10,636.38
Operating Pro˜t before Working Capital changes
 24,768.51
 26,456.62
Working capital adjustments:
(Increase) / Decrease in Inventories
 (8,416.12)
 1,279.16
Decrease in Trade Receivables
 158.04
 3,336.08
Decrease / (Increase) in Other Receivables
 53.57
 (1,534.93)
Increase in Trade Payables
 3,873.92
 303.86
(Increase) / Decrease in Other Liabilities & Provisions
 1,513.07
 (2,817.52)
 (416.21)
 2,967.96
Cash generated from operations
 21,950.99
 29,424.58
Direct Taxes Paid (Net of Refund)
 (3,188.44)
 (4,299.33)
 (3,188.44)
 (4,299.33)
Net cash from operating activities (A)
 18,762.55
 25,125.25
B.
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Interest Received
 665.01
 202.97
Dividends Received
 10.50
 177.34
Proceeds from Sale of Property, Plant and Equipment
 206.67
 769.31
Acquisition of Property, Plant and Equipment
 (7,609.89)
 (10,033.17)
Investment in Subsidiary Co.
 -
 (5,115.63)
Investment in Mutual Fund
 (1,000.05)
 (15,750.00)
Redemption of Mutual fund
 1,514.84
 14,461.35
Amount received towards Govt. Grant
 154.22
 97.78
Investment in ˜xed deposits (Net)
 (5,281.48)
 18.48
Net cash used in investing activities (B)
 (11,340.18)
 (15,171.57)
C.
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Receipt of Long term Borrowings
 -
 1,738.75
Repayment of Long term Borrowings
 (1,691.36)
 (855.14)
(Decrease) in Short Term borrowings (Net)
 -
 (685.73)
Interest paid
 (1,064.23)
 (1,195.60)
Principle Amount paid towards Lease Liability
 (2,525.89)
 (2,796.78)
Interest paid towards Lease Liability
 (1,267.76)
 (1,360.34)
Dividends paid (including dividend distribution tax)
 (746.13)
 (4,245.28)
Net cash ˚ow from (used in) ˜nancing activities (C)
 (7,295.37)
 (9,400.12)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  (A + B + C)
 127.00
 553.56
Cash and Cash Equivalents as at the beginning of the year
 1,032.85
 479.29
Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year
 1,159.85
 1,032.85
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 127.00
 553.56
67
Standalone Cash Flow Statement
Notes to the cash ˚ow statement
1
Components of cash and cash equivalents
( 
`
 in lakhs)
Year ended
31
st
 March, 2021
Year ended
31
st
 March, 2020
 (a) Balance in Current Accounts
870.65
 843.92
 (b) Cheques on Hand
50.26
 136.10
 (c) Cash on Hand
68.75
 52.83
 (d) Bank Deposits with less than 3 months maturity
170.19
 -
 Cash and cash equivalents
1,159.85
1,032.85
2
Debt reconciliation statement in accordance with Ind AS 7
Opening balances
Long-term borrowing (Refer Note 17)
 4,790.08
 4,441.81
Current maturities of Long term borrowings
 1,844.52
 744.81
Short-term borrowing
 -
 685.73
 6,634.60
 5,872.35
Movements
Long-term borrowing
 (1,691.36)
 883.61
Exchange Loss / (Gain) on restatement of Long Term Borrowings
 (306.67)
 564.37
Short-term borrowing
 -
 (685.73)
 (1,998.03)
 762.26
Closing balances
Long-term borrowing (Refer Note 17)
 2,854.05
 4,790.08
Current maturities of Long term Borrowings (Refer Note 22)
 1,782.52
 1,844.52
 4,636.57
 6,634.60
3
The Cash Flow statement has been prepared under the "Indirect Method" as set out in Accounting Standard (Ind As -7) 
Statement of Cash Flows .
Standalone Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2021  
(Continued)
As per our report of even date attached.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Nilkamal Limited
CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Membership No : 402877
Hiten V. Parekh
Managing Director
DIN : 00037550
Manish V. Parekh
Joint Managing Director
DIN : 00037724
Paresh B. Mehta
Chief Financial Of˜cer
 
Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave
Company Secretary
Membership No : 19469
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
68
1  Property, Plant and Equipment
(
`
 in lakhs)
Freehold 
Land
Leasehold 
Land
Building
Plant and 
Equipments
Furniture 
and 
Fixtures
Vehicles
Of˜ce 
Equipments
Lease 
Equipments
Leasehold 
Improvements
Right of Use 
Assets (see 
note f below)
Total
Gross Block :
Balance as at 1st April 2019
 1,131.70
 167.27
 13,996.20
 33,852.63
 3,777.55
 258.69
 2,018.83
 20.96
 1,605.73
 -
 56,829.56
Additions
 -
 -
 2,238.28
 5,459.20
 334.73
 2.26
 380.75
 -
 39.30
 16,905.66
 25,360.18
Adjustments
 -
 -
 -
 30.80
 0.07
 -
 (30.87)
 -
 -
 * 346.58
 346.58
Disposals
 13.52
 -
 245.18
 512.98
 51.08
 12.76
 43.72
 -
 84.77
 247.59
 1,211.60
Balance as at 31st March 2020
 1,118.18
 167.27
 15,989.30
 38,829.65
 4,061.27
 248.19
 2,324.99
 20.96
 1,560.26
 17,004.65
 81,324.72
Balance as at 1st April 2020
 1,118.18
 167.27
15,989.30
 38,829.65
 4,061.27
 248.19
 2,324.99
 20.96
 1,560.26
 17,004.65
81,324.72
Additions
 -
 -
 371.55
 6,708.07
 377.11
 -
 234.70
 670.89
 46.27
 8,602.25
17,010.84
Adjustments
 -
 -
 -
 17.33
 0.02
 -
 (16.94)
 (0.41)
 -
 -
-
Disposals
 -
 -
 66.01
 118.44
 176.87
 14.72
 160.70
 -
 96.08
 3,680.28
 4,313.10
Balance as at 31st March 2021
 1,118.18
 167.27
16,294.84
 45,436.61
 4,261.53
 233.47
 2,382.05
 691.44
 1,510.45
 21,926.62
94,022.46
Depreciation :
Balance as at 1st April 2019
 -
 9.04
 1,934.73
 12,392.09
 1,801.39
 104.10
 1,339.97
 7.89
 1,021.94
 -
 18,611.15
Depreciation for the year
 -
 2.18
 588.70
 4,203.30
 372.06
 31.74
 306.43
 3.81
 128.73
 3,332.87
 8,969.82
Adjustments :
 -
 -
 -
 5.94
 0.07
 -
 (6.01)
 -
 -
 -
-
Disposals
 -
 -
 18.20
 241.61
 26.57
 11.07
 41.63
 -
 40.56
 40.98
 420.62
Balance as at 31st March 2020
 -
 11.22
 2,505.23
 16,359.72
 2,146.95
 124.77
 1,598.76
 11.70
 1,110.11
 3,291.89
 27,160.35
Balance as at 1st April 2020
 -
 11.22
 2,505.23
 16,359.72
 2,146.95
 124.77
 1,598.76
 11.70
 1,110.11
 3,291.89
27,160.35
Depreciation for the year
 -
 2.18
 673.34
 4,282.91
 389.82
 21.23
 291.16
 32.70
 127.36
 3,366.86
 9,187.56
Adjustments
 -
 -
 -
 16.25
 0.02
 -
 (7.46)
 (8.81)
 -
 -
-
Disposals / Adjustments
 -
 -
 6.90
 79.16
 159.03
 13.06
 109.13
 -
 77.22
 853.55
 1,298.05
Balance as at 31st March 2021
 -
 13.40
 3,171.67
 20,579.72
 2,377.76
 132.94
 1,773.33
 35.59
 1,160.25
 5,805.20
35,049.86
Net Block :
As at 31st March 2020
 1,118.18
 156.05
 13,484.07
 22,469.93
 1,914.32
 123.42
 726.23
 9.26
 450.15
 13,712.76
 54,164.37
As at 31st March 2021
 1,118.18
 153.87
13,123.17
 24,856.89
 1,883.77
 100.53
 608.72
 655.85
 350.20
 16,121.42
58,972.60
Notes :-
a)
 
Leasehold land acquisition value includes
 ` 
0.01 lakh (Previous Year 
`
 0.01 lakh) paid by way of subscription of shares for membership of co-operative housing society.
b)
  
Pending completion of the relevant formalities of the ˜xed assets having Gross block value 
`
 225.34 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 228.00 lakhs) and Net block value 
`
 198.64 lakhs 
(Previous year 
`
 205.54 lakhs)which vested in the name of Company pursuant to the scheme of amalgamation, such assets continue to be in the nam
e of the erstwhile 
amalgamated companies.
c)
  
Government grant of 
`
 252.01 lakhs (Previous Year 
`
 Nil ) relating to property, plant and equipment recognised as deduction from carrying amount of related plant and 
equipments.
d)
 
For capital commitment with regards to property plant and equipment refer note 34 (b).
e)
 
For Assets on hypothecation as security against borrowing refer note 37
As per our report of even date attached.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Nilkamal Limited
CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Membership No : 402877
Hiten V. Parekh
Managing Director
DIN : 00037550
Manish V. Parekh
Joint Managing Director
DIN : 00037724
Paresh B. Mehta
Chief Financial Of˜cer
 
Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave
Company Secretary
Membership No : 19469
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2021
(a)  Equity share capital
(
 `
 in lakhs)
 As at 31st March, 2021
 As at 31st March, 2020
 No. of Shares
 Amount
 No. of Shares
 Amount
Balance at the beginning of the reporting period
 1,49,22,525
 1,492.25
 1,49,22,525
 1,492.25
Changes in equity share capital during the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
Balance at the end of the reporting period
 1,49,22,525
 1,492.25
 1,49,22,525
 1,492.25
(b) Other equity
(
 `
 in lakhs)
 Reserves & Surplus
 Other Reserve
 Total
Particulars
 Retained Earnings
 Securities 
Premium
 General Reserve
 Effective portion of 
cash ˚ow hedges
Balance at April 1, 2019
 45,589.42
 6,448.96
 35,000.00
 (92.15)
 86,946.23
Pro˜t for the year
 12,201.15
 -
 -
 -
 12,201.15
Other comprehensive income for the year
 (102.17)
 -
 -
 (60.61)
 (162.78)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 12,098.98
 -
 -
 (60.61)
 12,038.37
Final dividend declared and paid
 (1,343.03)
 -
 -
 -
 (1,343.03)
Interim dividend declared and paid
 (2,238.38)
 -
 -
 -
 (2,238.38)
DDT on interim and ˜nal dividend distributed
 (663.87)
 -
 -
 -
 (663.87)
Transition Impact of IND AS 116
 (872.87)
 -
 -
 -
 (872.87)
Balance at March 31, 2020
 52,570.25
 6,448.96
 35,000.00
 (152.76)
 93,866.45
Pro˜t for the year
 10,342.08
 -
 -
 -
 10,342.08
Other comprehensive income for the year
 304.84
 -
 -
 61.44
 366.28
Total comprehensive income for the year
 10,646.92
 -
 -
 61.44
 10,708.36
Interim dividend declared and paid
 (746.13)
 -
 -
 -
 (746.13)
Balance at March 31, 2021
 62,471.04
 6,448.96
 35,000.00
 (91.32)
 1,03,828.68
Statement of Changes in Equity
69
1  Property, Plant and Equipment
(
`
 in lakhs)
Freehold 
Land
Leasehold 
Land
Building
Plant and 
Equipments
Furniture 
and 
Fixtures
Vehicles
Of˜ce 
Equipments
Lease 
Equipments
Leasehold 
Improvements
Right of Use 
Assets (see 
note f below)
Total
Gross Block :
Balance as at 1st April 2019
 1,131.70
 167.27
 13,996.20
 33,852.63
 3,777.55
 258.69
 2,018.83
 20.96
 1,605.73
 -
 56,829.56
Additions
 -
 -
 2,238.28
 5,459.20
 334.73
 2.26
 380.75
 -
 39.30
 16,905.66
 25,360.18
Adjustments
 -
 -
 -
 30.80
 0.07
 -
 (30.87)
 -
 -
 * 346.58
 346.58
Disposals
 13.52
 -
 245.18
 512.98
 51.08
 12.76
 43.72
 -
 84.77
 247.59
 1,211.60
Balance as at 31st March 2020
 1,118.18
 167.27
 15,989.30
 38,829.65
 4,061.27
 248.19
 2,324.99
 20.96
 1,560.26
 17,004.65
 81,324.72
Balance as at 1st April 2020
 1,118.18
 167.27
15,989.30
 38,829.65
 4,061.27
 248.19
 2,324.99
 20.96
 1,560.26
 17,004.65
81,324.72
Additions
 -
 -
 371.55
 6,708.07
 377.11
 -
 234.70
 670.89
 46.27
 8,602.25
17,010.84
Adjustments
 -
 -
 -
 17.33
 0.02
 -
 (16.94)
 (0.41)
 -
 -
-
Disposals
 -
 -
 66.01
 118.44
 176.87
 14.72
 160.70
 -
 96.08
 3,680.28
 4,313.10
Balance as at 31st March 2021
 1,118.18
 167.27
16,294.84
 45,436.61
 4,261.53
 233.47
 2,382.05
 691.44
 1,510.45
 21,926.62
94,022.46
Depreciation :
Balance as at 1st April 2019
 -
 9.04
 1,934.73
 12,392.09
 1,801.39
 104.10
 1,339.97
 7.89
 1,021.94
 -
 18,611.15
Depreciation for the year
 -
 2.18
 588.70
 4,203.30
 372.06
 31.74
 306.43
 3.81
 128.73
 3,332.87
 8,969.82
Adjustments :
 -
 -
 -
 5.94
 0.07
 -
 (6.01)
 -
 -
 -
-
Disposals
 -
 -
 18.20
 241.61
 26.57
 11.07
 41.63
 -
 40.56
 40.98
 420.62
Balance as at 31st March 2020
 -
 11.22
 2,505.23
 16,359.72
 2,146.95
 124.77
 1,598.76
 11.70
 1,110.11
 3,291.89
 27,160.35
Balance as at 1st April 2020
 -
 11.22
 2,505.23
 16,359.72
 2,146.95
 124.77
 1,598.76
 11.70
 1,110.11
 3,291.89
27,160.35
Depreciation for the year
 -
 2.18
 673.34
 4,282.91
 389.82
 21.23
 291.16
 32.70
 127.36
 3,366.86
 9,187.56
Adjustments
 -
 -
 -
 16.25
 0.02
 -
 (7.46)
 (8.81)
 -
 -
-
Disposals / Adjustments
 -
 -
 6.90
 79.16
 159.03
 13.06
 109.13
 -
 77.22
 853.55
 1,298.05
Balance as at 31st March 2021
 -
 13.40
 3,171.67
 20,579.72
 2,377.76
 132.94
 1,773.33
 35.59
 1,160.25
 5,805.20
35,049.86
Net Block :
As at 31st March 2020
 1,118.18
 156.05
 13,484.07
 22,469.93
 1,914.32
 123.42
 726.23
 9.26
 450.15
 13,712.76
 54,164.37
As at 31st March 2021
 1,118.18
 153.87
13,123.17
 24,856.89
 1,883.77
 100.53
 608.72
 655.85
 350.20
 16,121.42
58,972.60
Notes :-
a)
 
Leasehold land acquisition value includes
 ` 
0.01 lakh (Previous Year 
`
 0.01 lakh) paid by way of subscription of shares for membership of co-operative housing society.
b)
  
Pending completion of the relevant formalities of the ˜xed assets having Gross block value 
`
 225.34 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 228.00 lakhs) and Net block value 
`
 198.64 lakhs 
(Previous year 
`
 205.54 lakhs)which vested in the name of Company pursuant to the scheme of amalgamation, such assets continue to be in the nam
e of the erstwhile 
amalgamated companies.
c)
  
Government grant of 
`
 252.01 lakhs (Previous Year 
`
 Nil ) relating to property, plant and equipment recognised as deduction from carrying amount of related plant and 
equipments.
d)
 
For capital commitment with regards to property plant and equipment refer note 34 (b).
e)
 
For Assets on hypothecation as security against borrowing refer note 37
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Nilkamal Limited
CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Membership No : 402877
Hiten V. Parekh
Managing Director
DIN : 00037550
Manish V. Parekh
Joint Managing Director
DIN : 00037724
Paresh B. Mehta
Chief Financial Of˜cer
 
Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave
Company Secretary
Membership No : 19469
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
70
f)
Details of Right of Use
Land & 
Building
Computer 
Server
Vehicles
Total
Gross Block :
Balance as at 1st April, 2019
-
-
-
-
Additions On account of Transition to Ind As 116 
-1st April 2019
 14,027.15
 399.55
 513.45
 14,940.15
Additions
 1,815.77
 -
 149.74
 1,965.51
Adjustment
 * 346.58
 346.58
Disposals
 247.59
 -
 -
 247.59
Balance as at 31st March, 2020
 15,941.91
 399.55
 663.19
 17,004.65
Balance as at 1st April, 2020
 15,941.91
 399.55
 663.19
 17,004.65
Additions
 8,517.89
 -
 84.36
 8,602.25
Adjustment
 -
 -
 -
 -
Disposals
 3,664.56
 -
 15.72
 3,680.28
Balance as at 31st March, 2021
 20,795.24
 399.55
 731.83
 21,926.62
Amortisation
Balance as at 1st April, 2019
 -
 -
 -
 -
Amortisation for the year
 2,979.37
 123.64
 229.86
 3,332.87
Disposals / Adjustments
 40.98
 -
 -
 40.98
Balance as at 31st March, 2020
 2,938.39
 123.64
 229.86
 3,291.89
Balance as at 1st April, 2020
 2,938.39
 123.64
 229.86
 3,291.89
Amortisation for the year
 3,076.38
 123.64
 166.84
 3,366.86
Disposals / Adjustments
 843.76
 -
 9.79
 853.55
Balance as at 31st March, 2021
 5,171.01
 247.28
 386.91
 5,805.20
Net Block :
As at 31st March, 2020
 13,003.52
 275.91
 433.33
 13,712.76
As at 31st March, 2021
 15,624.23
 152.27
 344.92
 16,121.42
   
* - In accordance with Ind AS 116 prepaid lease rental is regrouped from Other Non current asset to Right 
of Use asset amounting to 
` 
346.58 lakhs
  
Notes :-
  
a)
  
The Company has adopted Ind AS 116 effective 1st April, 2019, using the modi˜ed retrospective method. 
The Company has applied the standard to its leases with the cumulative impact recognised on the date 
of initial application (1st April, 2019). Accordingly, previous period information has not been restated.
  
b)
  
In the statement of pro˜t and loss for the current year, operating lease expenses which were 
recognised as other expenses in previous periods is now recognised as depreciation expense for the 
right-of-use asset and ˜nance cost for interest accrued on lease liability. The adoption of this standard 
did not have any signi˜cant impact on the pro˜t for the year and earnings per share. The weighted 
average incremental borrowing rate of 8.5% has been applied to lease liabilities recognised in the 
balance sheet at the date of initial application.
  
c)
  
The Company incurred 
`
 1,025.93 lakhs for the year ended 31st March, 2021 (Previous year 
`
 1,347.82 
lakhs) towards expenses relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. The total cash 
out˚ow for leases is 
`
 4,819.58 lakhs for the year ended 31st March, 2021 (Previous year 
`
 5,504.94 
lakhs), including cash out˚ow of short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. Interest on lease 
liabilities is 
`
 1,267.76 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 1,360.34 lakhs) for the year.
  
d)
  
The Company™s leases comprise of land and buildings, plant and equipment and computer server. 
 
The Company leases land and buildings for manufacturing and warehouse facilities.
  
e)
 
Maturity analysis of Undiscounted Contractual Future lease Out˚ow are as follows.
(
`
 in lakhs)
Period
2020-21
2019-20
Within one year
 3,927.85
 4,398.37
One to Five years
 10,290.90
 12,114.75
More than Five years
 16,415.30
 3,214.03
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
71
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
1a
Other Intangible Assets
(
`
 in lakhs)
Computer 
Software
Total
Gross Block :
Balance as at 1st April 2019
 383.63
 383.63
Additions
 117.94
 117.94
Disposals
 -
 -
Balance as at 31st March 2020
 501.57
 501.57
Balance as at 1st April 2020
 501.57
 501.57
Additions
 35.40
 35.40
Disposals
 -
 -
Balance as at 31st March 2021
 536.97
 536.97
Depreciation :
Balance as at 1st April 2019
 283.42
 283.42
Amortisation for the year
 81.32
 81.32
Disposals / Adjustments
 -
 -
Balance as at 31st March 2020
 364.74
 364.74
Balance as at 1st April 2020
 364.74
 364.74
Amortisation for the year
 79.09
 79.09
Adjustments
 -
 -
Disposals / Adjustments
 -
 -
Balance as at 31st March 2021
 443.83
 443.83
Net Block :
As at 31st March 2020
 136.83
 136.83
As at 31st March 2021
 93.14
 93.14
(
`
 in lakhs)
As at 
 
31st March, 2021
As at 
 
31st March, 2020
2
Investments in Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures
(Valued at cost unless stated otherwise)
Trade investments (Unquoted)
(I) Investment in Equity instruments
(a)
Investment in Subsidiary Companies
(i)
  
1,520,000 (Previous year - 1,520,000) Equity Shares 
of SLR 10/- each of Nilkamal Eswaran Plastics Private 
Limited, SriLanka, fully paid up
 93.62
 93.62
(ii)
  
1 (Previous year - 1) Equity share of DHS 185,000/- each 
of Nilkamal Crates and Bins, FZE, fully paid up
 19.65
 19.65
(iii)
  
4,440,000 (Previous year - 4,440,000) Equity Shares 
of Rs. 10/ each of Nilkamal Storage Systems Private 
Limited, (formerly known as Nilkamal Bito Storage 
Systems Private Limited) fully paid up
 7,331.13
 7,331.13
(iv) 
  
98 (Previous year - 98) Equity share of Rs. 10/- each of 
Nilkamal Foundation
 0.01
 0.01
 
(b)
 Investments in Joint Ventures
(i)
  
105,000 (Previous year - 105,000) Equity Shares of Rs. 
10/- each of Cambro Nilkamal Private Limited, fully 
paid up
 200.50
 200.50
Total
 7,644.91
 7,644.91
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 7,644.91
 7,644.91
72
(
`
 in lakhs)
As at 
 
31st March, 2021
As at 
 
31st March, 2020
3
Other Non-Current Investments (Refer Note 45)
Unquoted
(a)
Investments - Others (measured through Fair value 
through Pro˜t and Loss)
 42.82
 42.82
225,370 (Previous year - 225,370) Equity Shares of Rs. 10/ 
each of Beta Wind Farm Private Limited fully paid up
(b)
Investment in Government Securities ( measured 
through amortised cost)
National Savings Certi˜cates
 0.32
 0.32
(Pledged with Government Authorities)
Total
 43.14
 43.14
Aggregate amount of unquoted other investments
 43.14
 43.14
4
Non-Current Loans
(a)
Secured, Considered good
 -
 -
(b)
Unsecured, Considered good
 (i) Employee Loans
 257.45
 332.17
 (ii) Security Deposit
 (a) With other than related parties
 1,286.34
 1,427.99
 (b) With related parties (Refer Note 42)
 720.00
 720.00
(c)
With signi˜cant increase in Credit Risk
 -
 -
(d)
Credit impaired (Refer Note 45)
 -
 -
Total
 2,263.79
 2,480.16
5
Other Non-Current Financial Assets
Unsecured, Considered good
(a)
Bank Deposits with more than 12 months maturity
 44.88
 65.77
(b)
Derivative Assets (Net)
 88.79
 313.03
Total
 133.67
 378.80
6
Other Non-Current Assets
Unsecured, Considered good
To parties other than related parties :
(a)
 Capital Advances
 1,532.67
 1,435.48
(b)
 Deposit with Government Authorities
 954.64
 1,101.83
Total
 2,487.31
 2,537.31
7
Inventories
(Valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value)
(a)
Raw Material (including Goods in transit 
`
 424.14 lakhs
 11,859.36
 5,942.89
(Previous year - 
`
 424.76 lakhs))
(b)
Work-in-Progress
 4,014.81
 3,103.33
(c)
Finished Goods
 10,823.85
 9,520.39
(d)
Stock in Trade (including Goods in transit 
`
 793.58 lakhs 
(Previous year - 
`
 695.39 lakhs))
 15,693.14
 16,069.01
(e)
Stores and Spares
 2,412.14
 1,923.92
(f)
Packing Material
 501.46
 329.10
Total
 45,304.76
 36,888.64
For Inventories on hypothecation as security against borrowing refer note 37
During the year an amount of 
` 
180.11 lakhs (Previous year - 
`
 198.98 lakhs) was charged to the statement 
of pro˜t and loss on account of Damage and Slow Moving Inventory.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
73
(
`
 in lakhs)
As at 
 
31st March, 2021
As at 
 
31st March, 2020
8
Investments
Investment in Mutual Funds (Refer Note 45)
Quoted
Fair value through Pro˜t and Loss
(a)
Nil units (Previous year 34,468.791) of Kotak Liquid Fund-
Growth Scheme
 -
 1,383.88
(b)
Nil units (Previous year 44,051.544) of ICICI Prudential 
Liquid Fund-Growth Scheme
 -
 129.42
(c)
50,455.278 units (Previous year Nil) of Union Liquid Fund-
Growth Scheme
 1,000.05
 -
Total
 1,000.05
 
1,513.30
Aggregate value of quoted Investments
 1,000.00
 1,503.36
Market Value of quoted Investments
 1,000.05
 1,513.30
9
Trade Receivables
(a)
Considered good - Secured
 3,452.44
 3,789.01
(b)
Considered good - Unsecured
 22,290.80
 22,439.37
(c)
With signi˜cant increase in credit risk
 -
 -
(d)
Credit impaired
 1,274.75
 1,040.00
 27,017.99
 27,268.38
 Less: Provision for Loss Allowance
 (1,274.75)
 (1,040.00)
Total
 25,743.24
 26,228.38
For Trade receivables on hypothecation as security against 
borrowing refer note 37. Trade receivables (unsecured considered 
good) includes 
`
 1,799.24 lakhs (Previous year -
`
 821.68 lakhs) due 
from subsidiaries and joint venture companies. (Refer Note 40)
10
Cash and Cash Equivalents
(a)
Cash on Hand
 68.75
 52.83
(b)
Cheques on Hand
 50.26
 136.10
(c)
Balance with Banks in Current Accounts
 870.65
 843.92
(d)
Bank Deposits with less than 3 months maturity
 170.19
 -
Total
 1,159.85
 1,032.85
11
Bank Balances other than Cash and Cash Equivalents
(a)
Bank Deposits with 3-12 months maturity
 5,532.01
 229.64
(b)
Earmarked Balance with Banks (Unclaimed Dividend)
 60.93
 79.94
Total
 5,592.94
 309.58
12
Current Loans
(a)
Secured, Considered good
 -
 -
(b)
Unsecured, Considered good
To parties other than related parties :
 Security Deposit
 797.23
 1,190.79
(c)
With signi˜cant increase in Credit Risk
 -
 -
(d)
Credit impaired
 Security Deposits Considered Doubtful
 52.05
 52.05
 Less: Provision for Loss Allowance
 (52.05)
 (52.05)
Total
 797.23
 1,190.79
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
74
(
`
 in lakhs)
As at 
 
31st March, 2021
As at 
 
31st March, 2020
13
Other Current Financial Assets
(a)
Interest Receivable
 6.67
 5.76
(b)
Discount Receivable
 1,725.71
 1,277.72
(c)
Due from Related Parties (Refer Note 40)
 10.25
 143.16
(d)
Other Receivables
 4.99
 64.68
Total
 1,747.62
 1,491.32
14
Other Current Assets
To parties other than related Parties
(a)
Advance to Vendors
 1,635.25
 1,514.65
(b)
Advance for Expenses
 58.04
 74.78
(c)
Balances with authorities
 1,804.42
 1,930.97
(d)
Prepaid Expenses
 562.53
 414.63
(e)
Prepaid Gratuity (Refer Note 47)
 309.89
 -
(f)
Others
 175.06
 380.04
Total
 4,545.19
 4,315.07
15
Equity Share Capital
Authorised
22,000,000 (Previous year - 22,000,000) Equity Shares of Rs.10/- each
 2,200.00
 2,200.00
3,000,000 (Previous year - 3,000,000) Preference Shares of Rs. 10/- each
 300.00
 300.00
Total
 2,500.00
 2,500.00
Issued, Subscribed and Fully Paid-up
1,49,22,525 Equity Shares of Rs. 10/- each
 1,492.25
 1,492.25
(Previous year - 1,49,22,525 Equity Shares of Rs. 10/- each) (Refer 
Note 36)
Total
 1,492.25
 1,492.25
16
Other Equity
(a)
Retained Earnings
At the commencement of the year
 52,570.25
 45,589.42
Less: Transition Impact of IND AS 116
 -
 (872.87)
Add : Net Pro˜t for the year
 10,342.08
 12,201.15
Add : Other Comprehensive Income for the year
 304.84
 (102.17)
Appropriations
Final Dividend 31st March, 2020 
`
 Nil per share (31st March 
2019 
`
 9 per share)
 -
 (1,343.03)
Interim Dividend
 (746.13)
 (2,238.38)
Dividend distribution tax
 -
 (663.87)
 62,471.04
 52,570.25
(b)
Securities Premium
At the commencement and at the end of the year
 6,448.96
 6,448.96
 6,448.96
 6,448.96
(c)
General Reserve
At the commencement and at the end of the year
 35,000.00
 35,000.00
 35,000.00
 35,000.00
(d)
Items of Other Comprehensive Income
i) Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
 At the commencement of the year
 (152.76)
 (92.15)
 Add : Net gain / (loss) recognised on cash ˚ow hedge 
(Refer Note 38)
 61.44
 (60.61)
At the end of the year
 (91.32)
 (152.76)
Total Other Equity
 1,03,828.68
 93,866.45
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
75
Nature and purpose of reserves
1)
Securities premium
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act,2013.
2)
General reserve
General reserve forms part of the retained earnings and is permitted to be distributed to shareholders 
as part of dividend.
3)
Cash ˚ow hedge reserve
For hedging foreign currency exposure risk, the Company uses forward contracts swaps which is also 
designated as cash ˚ow hedges. To the extent these hedges are effective; the change in fair value of 
the hedging instrument is recognised in the cash ˚ow hedging reserve. Amount recognised in the 
cash ˚ow hedging reserve is reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss when the hedged item affects pro˜t or loss.
(
`
 in lakhs)
As at 
 
31st March, 2021
As at 
 
31st March, 2020
17
Borrowings - Non-Current Financial Liabilities
Secured Loan (For Security and terms of repayment : 
Refer Note 37)
 Term Loan from Banks
 (i) Foreign Currency Loans
 2,854.05
 4,790.08
Total
 2,854.05
 4,790.08
* Current maturities of Long Term Borrowings disclosed under 
Other Current Liabilities : Refer Note 22
 *1,782.52
 *1,844.52
18
Other Non-Current Financial Liabilities
Security Deposit Received
 6,231.12
 5,917.85
Lease Liabilities
 15,523.72
 12,304.90
Total
 21,754.84
 18,222.75
19
Non-Current Provisions
Provision for employee bene˜ts (Refer Note 47)
(a)
 Compensated Absences
 416.96
 480.95
Total
 416.96
 480.95
20
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) (refer note 32)
Major components of deferred tax assets and liabilities arising 
on account of timing differences are:
Deferred Tax Liabilities :
Depreciation and Amortisation
 5,965.39
 5,260.35
Allowances under Income Tax Act
 212.00
 230.31
 6,177.39
 5,490.66
Deferred Tax Assets :
Disallowances under Income Tax Act
 5,006.48
 4,356.92
Provision for Doubtful Debts
 320.83
 261.75
 5,327.31
 4,618.67
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net)
 850.08
 871.99
21
Trade Payables
(a)
Total Outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises (Refer Note 39)
 -
 -
(b)
Total Outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 17,326.15
 13,453.06
Total
 17,326.15
 13,453.06
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
76
(
`
 in lakhs)
As at 
 
31st March, 2021
As at 
 
31st March, 2020
22
Other Current Financial Liabilities
(a)
Current maturities of Long-Term debt
(i)    Foreign Currency Loan (Refer Note 37)
 1,782.52
 1,844.52
(b)
Book Overdrafts
 7.60
 11.49
(c)
Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
 31.07
 49.36
(d)
Lease Liabilities
 2,522.85
 3,205.26
(e)
Unclaimed Dividends
 60.93
 79.94
(f)
Payable for purchase of property, plant and equipment
 1,215.62
 854.61
(g)
Employee Bene˜ts
 913.69
 942.43
Total
 6,534.28
 6,987.61
23
Other Current Liabilities
(a)
Advance Received from Customers
 3,023.42
 1,787.03
(b)
Advance Received against Sale of Property, Plant and 
Equipment
 -
 33.00
(c)
Statutory Dues
(i)    Sales Tax / Goods and services tax
 267.84
 123.94
(ii)   Tax deducted at source
 347.75
 409.83
(iii)  Employee Bene˜ts
 137.12
 136.83
 752.71
 670.60
(d)
Other Payable
 -
 35.21
Total
 3,776.13
 2,623.62
24
Current Provisions
(a)
Provision for Employee Bene˜ts (Refer Note 47)
(i)    Gratuity
 -
 68.70
(ii)   Compensated Absences
 418.36
 377.07
 418.36
 445.77
(b)
Others Provisions
(i)    Provision For Product Warranties (Refer Note 35)
 618.78
 578.23
(ii)   Provision Others (Refer Note 35)
 40.00
 40.00
Total
 1,077.14
 1,064.00
(
`
 in lakhs)
Year ended 
 
31st March 2021
Year ended 
 
31st March 2020
25
Revenue from Operations (refer note 31)
(a)
Sale of Products
(i)    Domestic
 1,81,766.10
 2,00,121.53
(ii)   Export
 4,490.87
 5,230.43
 1,86,256.97
 2,05,351.96
(b)
Sale of Services
 962.70
 837.54
(c)
Other Operating Revenue
(i)    Sale of Scrap
 517.33
 580.08
(ii)   Technical and Management Fees
 635.76
 855.64
(iii)  Others
 429.82
 522.16
Revenue from Operations
 1,88,802.58
 2,08,147.38
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
77
(
`
 in lakhs)
Year ended 
 
31st March 2021
Year ended 
 
31st March 2020
26
Other Income
(a)
Interest Income
 939.80
 319.47
(b)
Dividend Income from Subsidiary Companies and Joint 
Ventures
 10.50
 205.99
(c)
Gain on Sale of Investments
 1.54
 224.64
(d)
Gain on Cancellation / Modi˜cation of Lease
 444.92
 36.16
(e)
Pro˜t on property, plant and equipment Sold / Discarded (Net)
 51.35
 302.48
Total
 1,448.11
 1,088.74
27
Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Traded Goods and Work-in-Progress
 
Opening Stock
 Work in Progress
 3,103.34
 3,387.87
 Finished Goods
 9,520.39
 10,024.74
 Stock in Trade
 16,069.01
 16,085.98
 28,692.74
 29,498.59
Closing Stock
 Work in Progress
 4,014.80
 3,103.34
 Finished Goods
 10,823.85
 9,520.39
 Stock in Trade
 15,693.14
 16,069.01
 30,531.79
 28,692.74
Total
 (1,839.05)
 805.85
28
Employee Bene˜ts Expense
(a)
Salary, Wages and Bonus (Net)
 13,926.48
 15,653.42
(b)
Contribution to Provident and Other funds (Refer Note 47)
 793.40
 823.60
(c)
Workmen and Staff Welfare Expenses
 719.84
 1,060.91
Total
 15,439.72
 17,537.93
29
Finance Costs
(a)
Interest on Financial Liabilities
 983.41
 1,122.67
(b)
Interest Expense on Lease Liabilities
 1,267.76
 1,360.34
(c)
Other Borrowing Costs
 62.53
 90.72
Total
 2,313.70
 2,573.73
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
78
B.
Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers
In the following table, revenue from contracts with customers is disaggregated by primary geographical market, major products a
nd service lines and timing 
of revenue recognition.
(
`
 in lakhs)
Product Category
Fore the year ended 31 March
Plastics
Life style Furniture, 
Furnishings and Accessories
Total
 31st March, 
2021
 31st March, 
2020
 31stMarch, 
2021
  31st  March, 
2020
 31st March, 
2021
  31st  March, 
2020
Primary geographical markets
Domestic Sales
 1,68,622.82
 1,81,405.64
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
 1,84,311.71
 2,02,916.95
Export sales
 4,490.87
 5,230.43
 -
 -
 4,490.87
 5,230.43
 1,73,113.69
 1,86,636.07
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
 1,88,802.58
 2,08,147.38
Revenue types
Sale of products
 1,70,588.56
 1,83,865.36
 15,668.41
 21,486.60
 1,86,256.97
 2,05,351.96
Sale of Services
 962.70
 837.54
 -
 -
 962.70
 837.54
Sale of Scrap
 505.85
 572.32
 11.48
 7.76
 517.33
 580.08
Technical and Management Fees
 635.76
 855.64
 -
 -
 635.76
 855.64
Others
 420.82
 505.21
 9.00
 16.95
 429.82
 522.16
 1,73,113.69
 1,86,636.07
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
 1,88,802.58
 2,08,147.38
Timing of revenue recognition
Products Transferred at a point in time
 1,73,113.69
 1,86,636.07
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
 1,88,802.58
 2,08,147.38
Revenue from contracts with customers
 1,73,113.69
 1,86,636.07
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
 1,88,802.58
 2,08,147.38
External revenue as reported
 1,73,113.69
 1,86,636.07
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
 1,88,802.58
 2,08,147.38
C.
Reconciliation of Revenue from operation with Contract price
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Year ended 
 
31st March, 2021
 Year ended 
 
31st March, 2020
Contract Price
 2,07,363.08
 2,32,562.14
Less: Sales Returns
 2,819.99
 3,267.63
 Schemes and Discounts
 15,740.51
 21,147.13
Total Revenue from Operation
 1,88,802.58
 2,08,147.38
D.
Contract balances
The following table provides information about receivables from contracts with customers.
(
`
 in lakhs)
Note
 31st March, 2021
 31st March, 2020
Advance from customer, which are included in 'Other Current Liabilities'
23
 3,023.42
 1,787.03
Receivables, which are included in 'trade receivables'
9
 25,743.24
 26,228.38
(
`
 in lakhs)
Year ended 
 
31st March 2021
Year ended 
 
31st March 2020
30
Other Expenses
(a)
Stores, Spare Parts Consumed
 1,757.85
 1,835.68
(b)
Power and Fuel
 4,000.72
 4,593.86
(c)
Repairs :
(i)    Building
 181.90
 237.15
(ii)   Machinery
 238.74
 248.77
(iii)  Others
 654.99
 1,025.31
(d)
Labour Charges
 10,157.12
 11,040.27
(e)
Rent
 1,025.93
 1,347.82
(f)
Rates and Taxes
 473.98
 539.97
(g)
Insurance
 450.73
 333.12
(h)
Postage and Telephone Expenses
 509.65
 553.05
(i)
Packing Material Consumed
 2,156.05
 2,254.92
(j)
Travelling and Conveyance
 676.26
 1,649.85
(k)
Commission
 1,888.35
 1,918.29
(l)
Advertisements and Sales Promotion Expense
 1,986.25
 3,568.83
(m)
Computer Expenses
 898.18
 888.54
(n)
Transportation and Forwarding Charges
 13,017.01
 13,457.09
(o)
Security and Guards
 551.04
 515.40
(p)
House Keeping Expenses
 350.61
 478.08
(q)
Legal and Professional Fees
 1,374.99
 1,434.62
(r)
Vehicle Expenses
 389.76
 533.82
(s)
Printing and Stationery
 92.36
 139.24
(t)
Board Meeting Fees
 46.60
 52.60
(u)
Bad Debts written off
 104.21
 153.94
(v)
Provision for Doubtful Debts and Advances
 234.75
 198.24
(w)
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses (Refer Note 44)
 328.17
 338.00
(x)
Payment to Auditors
-      Audit Fees
 44.00
 44.00
-      For Other Services
 1.90
 7.90
-      Reimbursement of Expenses
 1.80
 4.47
(y)
Foreign Exchange Loss (Net)
 0.19
 31.21
(z)
Bank Charges
 213.45
 246.48
(aa)
Miscellaneous Expenses
 191.04
 332.61
Total
 43,998.58
 50,003.13
31
Revenue from Contract from Customer
A.
Revenue Streams
The Company generates revenue primarily from the sale of Plastic articles and Life style Furniture, 
Furnishings and Accessories to its customers. Other sources of revenue include Sale of services and 
Technical management fees.
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March 2021
31st March 2020
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Sale of Goods
 1,86,256.97
 2,05,351.96
Sale of Services
 962.70
 837.54
Other Operating revenue
Sale of Scrap
 517.33
 580.08
Technical and Management Fees
 635.76
 855.64
Others
 429.82
 522.16
Total revenue
 1,88,802.58
 2,08,147.38
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
79
B.
Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers
In the following table, revenue from contracts with customers is disaggregated by primary geographical market, major products a
nd service lines and timing 
of revenue recognition.
(
`
 in lakhs)
Product Category
Fore the year ended 31 March
Plastics
Life style Furniture, 
Furnishings and Accessories
Total
 31st March, 
2021
 31st March, 
2020
 31stMarch, 
2021
  31st  March, 
2020
 31st March, 
2021
  31st  March, 
2020
Primary geographical markets
Domestic Sales
 1,68,622.82
 1,81,405.64
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
 1,84,311.71
 2,02,916.95
Export sales
 4,490.87
 5,230.43
 -
 -
 4,490.87
 5,230.43
 1,73,113.69
 1,86,636.07
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
 1,88,802.58
 2,08,147.38
Revenue types
Sale of products
 1,70,588.56
 1,83,865.36
 15,668.41
 21,486.60
 1,86,256.97
 2,05,351.96
Sale of Services
 962.70
 837.54
 -
 -
 962.70
 837.54
Sale of Scrap
 505.85
 572.32
 11.48
 7.76
 517.33
 580.08
Technical and Management Fees
 635.76
 855.64
 -
 -
 635.76
 855.64
Others
 420.82
 505.21
 9.00
 16.95
 429.82
 522.16
 1,73,113.69
 1,86,636.07
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
 1,88,802.58
 2,08,147.38
Timing of revenue recognition
Products Transferred at a point in time
 1,73,113.69
 1,86,636.07
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
 1,88,802.58
 2,08,147.38
Revenue from contracts with customers
 1,73,113.69
 1,86,636.07
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
 1,88,802.58
 2,08,147.38
External revenue as reported
 1,73,113.69
 1,86,636.07
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
 1,88,802.58
 2,08,147.38
C.
Reconciliation of Revenue from operation with Contract price
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Year ended 
 
31st March, 2021
 Year ended 
 
31st March, 2020
Contract Price
 2,07,363.08
 2,32,562.14
Less: Sales Returns
 2,819.99
 3,267.63
 Schemes and Discounts
 15,740.51
 21,147.13
Total Revenue from Operation
 1,88,802.58
 2,08,147.38
D.
Contract balances
The following table provides information about receivables from contracts with customers.
(
`
 in lakhs)
Note
 31st March, 2021
 31st March, 2020
Advance from customer, which are included in 'Other Current Liabilities'
23
 3,023.42
 1,787.03
Receivables, which are included in 'trade receivables'
9
 25,743.24
 26,228.38
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(
`
 in lakhs)
Year ended 
 
31st March 2021
Year ended 
 
31st March 2020
30
Other Expenses
(a)
Stores, Spare Parts Consumed
 1,757.85
 1,835.68
(b)
Power and Fuel
 4,000.72
 4,593.86
(c)
Repairs :
(i)    Building
 181.90
 237.15
(ii)   Machinery
 238.74
 248.77
(iii)  Others
 654.99
 1,025.31
(d)
Labour Charges
 10,157.12
 11,040.27
(e)
Rent
 1,025.93
 1,347.82
(f)
Rates and Taxes
 473.98
 539.97
(g)
Insurance
 450.73
 333.12
(h)
Postage and Telephone Expenses
 509.65
 553.05
(i)
Packing Material Consumed
 2,156.05
 2,254.92
(j)
Travelling and Conveyance
 676.26
 1,649.85
(k)
Commission
 1,888.35
 1,918.29
(l)
Advertisements and Sales Promotion Expense
 1,986.25
 3,568.83
(m)
Computer Expenses
 898.18
 888.54
(n)
Transportation and Forwarding Charges
 13,017.01
 13,457.09
(o)
Security and Guards
 551.04
 515.40
(p)
House Keeping Expenses
 350.61
 478.08
(q)
Legal and Professional Fees
 1,374.99
 1,434.62
(r)
Vehicle Expenses
 389.76
 533.82
(s)
Printing and Stationery
 92.36
 139.24
(t)
Board Meeting Fees
 46.60
 52.60
(u)
Bad Debts written off
 104.21
 153.94
(v)
Provision for Doubtful Debts and Advances
 234.75
 198.24
(w)
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses (Refer Note 44)
 328.17
 338.00
(x)
Payment to Auditors
-      Audit Fees
 44.00
 44.00
-      For Other Services
 1.90
 7.90
-      Reimbursement of Expenses
 1.80
 4.47
(y)
Foreign Exchange Loss (Net)
 0.19
 31.21
(z)
Bank Charges
 213.45
 246.48
(aa)
Miscellaneous Expenses
 191.04
 332.61
Total
 43,998.58
 50,003.13
31
Revenue from Contract from Customer
A.
Revenue Streams
The Company generates revenue primarily from the sale of Plastic articles and Life style Furniture, 
Furnishings and Accessories to its customers. Other sources of revenue include Sale of services and 
Technical management fees.
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March 2021
31st March 2020
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Sale of Goods
 1,86,256.97
 2,05,351.96
Sale of Services
 962.70
 837.54
Other Operating revenue
Sale of Scrap
 517.33
 580.08
Technical and Management Fees
 635.76
 855.64
Others
 429.82
 522.16
Total revenue
 1,88,802.58
 2,08,147.38
80
32
Tax expenses
(a)
Amounts recognised in pro˜t and loss
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Year ended 
 
31st March, 2021
 Year ended 
 
31st March, 2020
Current tax
Income tax for the current year
 3,745.00
 4,030.00
Adjustment in respect of current income tax of 
previous year
 (32.25)
 -
Deferred income tax liability / (asset), net
Origination and reversal of temporary differences
 (151.86)
 (44.30)
Reduction in tax rate
 -
 (498.07)
Transition impact of IND AS116
 -
 131.46
Deferred tax (credit) / expense
 (151.86)
 (410.91)
Tax expense for the year
 3,560.89
 3,619.09
Effective tax rate for the year
25.61%
22.88%
(b)
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Year ended 31st March, 2021
 Year ended 31st March, 2020
Before 
tax
 Tax 
(expense) 
bene˜t
 Net of 
tax
 Before 
tax
 Tax 
(expense) 
bene˜t
 Net of 
tax
Items that will not be 
reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss
Remeasurements of de˜ned 
bene˜t liability (asset)
 407.37
 (102.53)
 304.84
 
(127.83)
 25.66
 (102.17)
Items that will be reclassi˜ed 
to pro˜t or loss
Effective portion of Gain/(Loss) 
on hedging instrument in a cash 
˚ow hedge
 82.11
 (20.67)
 61.44
 (62.51)
 1.90
 (60.61)
 489.48
 (123.20)
 366.28
(190.34)
 27.56
 (162.78)
(c)
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
 Year ended 
 
31st March, 2021
 Year ended 
 
31st March, 2020
Pro˜t before tax
 13,902.97
 15,820.24
Tax using the Company™s domestic tax rate
25.17%
25.17%
Reduction in tax rate
0.00%
-3.15%
Tax effect of:
Tax impact of income not subject to tax
-0.02%
-0.07%
Tax effects of amounts which are not deductible for 
taxable income
0.68%
0.60%
Adjustment for current tax of prior period
-0.23%
-
Deferred tax assets not recognized because realization is 
not probable
-
-
Effect of different tax rate
-
-0.18%
Tax deduction Under Chapter VI
-
-0.27%
Tax deduction u/s 80G
-
-
Transition impact of IND AS116
-
0.83%
Others
0.02%
-0.07%
25.61%
22.88%
The applicable Indian corporate statutory rate for the year ended 31st March, 2021 is 25.17% and 
2020 is 25.17%.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
81
32
Tax expenses (Contd.)
(d)
Movement in deferred tax balances
 31st March, 2021
 Net balance
1st April, 2020
 Recognised 
in pro˜t or 
loss
 Recognised
in OCI
 Charge in 
respect of 
earlier years
 Net
Deferred tax 
asset
 Deferred 
tax liability
Deferred tax asset / (liabilities)
Property, plant and equipment
 (5,260.35)
 (696.56)
 -
 (8.48)
 (5,965.39)
 -
 (5,965.39)
Employee bene˜ts
 282.18
 76.78
 (102.53)
 -
 256.43
 256.43
 -
Rent equilisation
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Provision for Doubtful Debts / Advances
 261.74
 59.09
 -
 -
 320.83
 320.83
 -
Other provisions
 3,844.44
 712.55
 (20.67)
 1.73
 4,538.05
 4,854.74
 (316.69)
Tax assets (Liabilities)
 (871.99)
 151.86
 (123.20)
 (6.75)
 (850.08)
 5,432.00
 (6,282.08)
Set off tax
Net tax assets / (liabilities)
 (871.99)
 151.86
 (123.20)
 (6.75)
 (850.08)
 5,432.00
 (6,282.08)
(e)
Movement in deferred tax balances
 31st March, 2020
 Net balance
1st April , 
2019
 Recognised 
in pro˜t or 
loss
 Recognised
in OCI
 Charge in 
respect of 
earlier years
 Net
 Deferred 
tax asset
 Deferred 
tax liability
Deferred tax asset / (liabilities)
Property, plant and equipment
 (2,357.90)
 2,325.70
 -
 (5,228.15)
 (5,260.35)
 -
 (5,260.35)
Employee bene˜ts
 364.25
 (107.73)
 25.66
 -
 282.18
 282.18
 -
Rent equilisation
 131.75
 (18.34)
 -
 (113.41)
 -
 -
 -
Provision for Doubtful Debts / Advances
 294.13
 (32.39)
 -
 -
 261.74
 261.74
 -
Other provisions
 (212.57)
 (1,756.33)
 1.90
 5,811.44
 3,844.44
 4,161.13
 (316.69)
Tax assets (Liabilities)
 (1,780.34)
 410.91
 27.56
 469.88
 (871.99)
 4,705.05
 (5,577.04)
Set off tax
Net tax assets / (liabilities)
 (1,780.34)
 410.91
 27.56
 469.88
 (871.99)
 4,705.05
 (5,577.04)
 
 
(1)
  
The Company offsets tax assets and liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and current tax liabilities and the 
deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority.
  
(2)
  
Management judgment is required in determining provision for income tax, deferred income tax assets and liabilities and recover
ability of deferred income 
tax assets. The recoverability of deferred income tax assets is based on estimates of taxable income in which the relevant enti
ty operates and the period over 
which deferred income tax assets will be recovered.
  
(3)
  
The Company have elected to exercise the option permitted under Section 115BAA of the Income Tax Act, 1961 as introduced by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) 
Ordinance, 2019. Accordingly, the Company have recognised provision for income tax for the year ended 31st March 2020 and re-measured its deferred tax 
balances basis the rate prescribed in the said Section. The full impact of this change has been recognised in the statement of 
pro˜t and loss account for the year 
ended 31st March 2020.
    
The Company has reviewed its income tax treatments in order to determine whether Appendix C of Ind AS 12 effective from April 1, 2019 could have an 
impact on the ˜nancial statements and concluded that it has no material impact on the Company™s ˜nancial statements
  
(4)
  
Given that the Company does not have any intention to dispose investments in subsidiaries and Joint Ventures in the foreseeable future, deferred tax asset 
amounting to 
`
 757.47 lakhs as of 31 March 2021, 
`
 592.01 lakhs as on 31 March 2020 on indexation bene˜t in relation to such investments has not been recognised.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
82
33
 
Signi˜cant accounting policies
 
a)
 
Basis of preparation of Financial Statements:
   
The Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) to comply with the section 133 of the Companies Act 2013(ﬁthe 2013 Actﬂ), read with 
Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015, and Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2016. The ˜nancial statements were authorised for issue by the Company™s Board of 
Directors on 3
rd
 June 2021.
   
All the assets and liabilities have been classi˜ed as current or non-current as per the Company's normal 
operating cycle and other criteria set out in Schedule III to the Act. Based on the nature of products 
and the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realization in cash and cash 
equivalent, the Company has ascertained the operating cycle to be 12 months.
  
Functional and presentation currency:
   
These standalone ˜nancial statements are presented in Indian rupees, which is the Company™s functional 
currency. All amounts have been rounded off to two decimal places to the nearest lakh, unless otherwise 
indicated.
  
Historical cost convention:
   
The standalone ˜nancial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the 
following:



 
b)
 
Use of Estimates and Judgements:
   
The preparation of ˜nancial statements in accordance with Ind AS requires use of estimates and 
assumptions for some items, which might have an effect on their recognition and measurement in 
the balance sheet and statement of pro˜t and loss. The actual amounts realised may differ from these 
estimates.
  
Estimates and assumptions are required in particular for:


    
Useful lives of property plant and equipment are based on the life prescribed in Schedule II of the 
Companies Act, 2013. In cases, where the useful lives are different from that prescribed in Schedule 
II for plant and machinery and dies and moulds, they are based on technical advice, taking into 
account the nature of the asset, the estimated usage of the asset, the operating conditions of the 
asset, past history of replacement, anticipated technological changes, manufacturers™ warranties 
and maintenance support.
  


    
The obligation arising from de˜ned bene˜t plan is determined on the basis of actuarial assumptions. 
Key actuarial assumptions include discount rate, trends in salary escalation, actuarial rates and life 
expectancy. The discount rate is determined by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting 
period on government bonds. The period to maturity of the underlying bonds correspond to the 
probable maturity of the post-employment bene˜t obligations.


    
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary 
differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and 
unutilized business loss and depreciation carry-forwards and tax credits. Deferred tax assets are 
recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses, depreciation carry-forwards and 
unused tax credits could be utilized.



    
The recognition and measurement of other provisions are based on the assessment of the probability 
of an out˚ow of resources, and on past experience and circumstances known at the balance sheet 
date. The actual out˚ow of resources at a future date may therefore vary from the amount included 
in other provisions.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
83
 
b)
 
Use of Estimates and Judgements: (Continued)

    
All ˜nancial assets / liabilities are required to be measured at fair value on initial recognition. In case 
of ˜nancial liabilities / assets which are required to subsequently be measured at amortised cost, 
interest is accrued using the effective interest method.


    
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to 
the Chief Operating Decision Maker. The Company prepares its segment information in conformity 
with the accounting policies adopted for preparing and presenting the ˜nancial statements of the 
Company as a whole.

    
Derivatives are carried at fair value. Derivatives includes foreign currency forward contracts and 
interest rate swaps. Fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are determined using the fair 
value reports provided by respective bankers. Fair value of interest rate swaps are determined with 
respect to current market rate of interest.

    
The Company™s accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement of fair values for 
˜nancial instruments.
    
The Company has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values. 
The management regularly reviews signi˜cant unobservable inputs and valuation adjustments. If 
third party information, such as broker quotes or pricing services, is used to measure fair values, then 
the management assesses the evidence obtained from the third parties to support the conclusion 
that such valuations meet the requirements of Ind AS, including the level in the fair value hierarchy 
in which such valuations should be classi˜ed.
    
When measuring the fair value of a ˜nancial asset or a ˜nancial liability, the Company uses 
observable market data as far as possible. Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair 
value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows.

quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.


inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or 
liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).


inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable 
inputs).
     
If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or a liability fall into different levels of 
the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the 
same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is signi˜cant to the entire 
measurement.
 
c)
 
Standards issued but not yet effective
e
   
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (ﬁMCAﬂ) noti˜es new standards or amendments to the existing standards. 
There is no such noti˜cation, which would have been applicable from April 1, 2021.
 
d)
 
Property, plant and equipment:


    
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any 
accumulated impairment losses.
    
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment comprises:
    
Its purchase price, including import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting trade 
discounts and rebates.
    
Any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to 
be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
    
The initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on 
which it is located, the obligation for which an entity incurs either when the item is acquired or as a 
consequence of having used the item during a particular period for purposes other than to produce 
inventories during that period.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
84
 
d)
 
Property, plant and equipment: (Continued)
   
Income and expenses related to the incidental operations, not necessary to bring the item to the location 
and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management, are 
recognised in pro˜t or loss.
   
Items such as spare parts, stand-by equipments and servicing that meets the de˜nition of property, plant 
and equipment are capitalised at cost and depreciated over the useful life.
   
If signi˜cant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, then they are 
accounted and depreciated for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
  
Any gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in pro˜t or loss.


    
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if it is probable that the future economic bene˜ts 
associated with the expenditure will ˚ow to the Company.
 
e)
 
Depreciation:


useful lives of assets as prescribed under Part C of Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 except 
for plant and machinery and Dies and moulds which is based on technical evaluation. Management 
believes that these useful lives best represent the period over which management expects to use 
these assets. Hence the useful life for plant and machinery of 10 years and for Dies and Moulds of 6 
years for continuous running is different from the useful life as prescribed under Part C of Schedule 
II of the Companies Act 2013;
    
Useful life of property plant and equipment are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted 
prospectively, if appropriate.



date of such addition or upto the date of such sale/discardment, as the case may be;


/ acquisition;


`
15,000/- are depreciated entirely 
in the year of acquisition.
 
f)
 
Intangible Fixed Assets :
   
Intangible assets, which are acquired by the Company and have ˜nite useful lives are measured at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
   
All other expenditure, including expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands, is recognised 
in pro˜t or loss as incurred.
 
g)
 
Amortisation:
   
Software (Intangible assets) are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis but 
not exceeding the period of 36 months.
   
Useful life of Intangible assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted prospectively, if 
appropriate.
 
h)
 
Financial Instruments:
   
A ˜nancial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a ˜nancial asset of one entity and a ˜nancial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity. Financial instruments also include derivative contracts 
such as foreign currency foreign exchange forward contracts and, interest rate swaps and currency 
options; and embedded derivatives in the host contract.
   
Financial instruments also covers contracts to buy or sell a non-˜nancial item that can be settled net in 
cash or another ˜nancial instrument, or by exchanging ˜nancial instruments, as if the contracts were 
˜nancial instruments, with the exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held 
for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-˜nancial item in accordance with the entity™s expected 
purchase, sale or usage requirements.
   
Derivatives are currently recognized at fair value on the date on which the derivative contract is entered 
into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
85
 
h)
 
Financial Instruments: (Continued)
  
Cash Flow Hedges
   
The Company uses derivative ˜nancial instrument such as forward contracts and cross currency interest 
rate swaps to hedge its foreign currency risks and interest rate risks. Derivative ˜nancial instruments 
are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as ˜nancial assets when the fair value is 
positive and as ˜nancial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
   
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken directly to the 
Statement of Pro˜t and Loss, except for the effective portion of cash ˚ow hedge, which is recognised in 
Other Comprehensive Income and accumulated in Cash Flow Hedge Reserve included in the Reserves and 
Surplus while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Statement of Pro˜t and Loss.
  
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classi˜ed as:
   
Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or 
liability.
   
Cash ˚ow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash ˚ows that is either attributable to 
particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability.
   
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Company formally designates and documents the hedge 
relationship to which the Company wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective 
and strategy for undertaking the hedge. The documentation includes identi˜cation of the hedging 
instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity 
will assess the effectiveness of changes in the hedging instrument™s fair value in offsetting the exposure 
to changes in the hedged item™s fair value or cash ˚ows attributable to the hedged risk. Such hedges 
are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash ˚ows and are 
assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the 
˜nancial reporting periods for which they were designated.
   
Hedge accounting is discontinued from the last testing date when the hedging instrument expires or is 
sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer quali˜es for hedge accounting. Cumulative gain or loss on 
such hedging instrument recognised in Cash Flow Hedge Reserve is retained there until the forecasted 
transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss 
recognised in Cash Flow Hedge Reserve is transferred to Statement of Pro˜t and Loss for the year.
  
Financial Assets
  
Classification
   
The Company shall classify ˜nancial assets as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through 
other comprehensive income or fair value through pro˜t or loss on the basis of its business model for 
managing the ˜nancial assets and the contractual cash ˚ow characteristics of the ˜nancial asset.
  
Initial recognition and measurement
   
All ˜nancial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the case of ˜nancial assets not recorded at 
fair value through pro˜t or loss, transaction costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the ˜nancial 
asset. Purchases or sales of ˜nancial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established 
by regulation or convention in the market place (regular way trades) are recognised on the trade date, 
i.e., the date that the Company commits to purchase or sell the asset.
  
Debt instruments at amortised cost
  
A ‚debt instrument™ is measured at the amortised cost if both the following conditions are met:
  
a)
  
The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual 
cash ˚ows, and
  
b)
  
Contractual terms of the asset give rise on speci˜ed dates to cash ˚ows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding.
   
After initial measurement, such ˜nancial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or 
premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is 
included in ˜nance income in the pro˜t or loss. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the 
pro˜t or loss. This category generally applies to trade and other receivables. For more information on 
receivables, refer to Note 45.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
86
 
h)
 
Financial Instruments: (Continued)
   
Equity investments
   
All equity investments in scope of Ind-AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity instruments which are 
held for trading are classi˜ed as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Company decides to 
classify the same either as at FVOCI or FVTPL. The Company makes such election on an instrument-by-
instrument basis. The classi˜cation is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.
   
If the Company decides to classify an equity instrument as FVOCI, then all fair value changes on the 
instrument, excluding dividends, are recognized in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from 
OCI to pro˜t and loss, even on sale of investment. However, the Company may transfer the cumulative 
gain or loss within equity.
   
Equity instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all changes 
recognized in the pro˜t and loss.
  
Derecognition
   
A ˜nancial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a ˜nancial asset or part of a Company of similar ˜nancial 
assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e. removed from the Company™s balance sheet) when:



obligation to pay the received cash ˚ows in full without material delay to a third party under a 
‚pass-through™ arrangement; and either (a) the Company has transferred substantially all the risks 
and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Company has neither transferred nor retained substantially all 
the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
   
When the Company has transferred its rights to receive cash ˚ows from an asset or has entered into a 
pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if and to what extent it has retained the risks and rewards of 
ownership. When it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the 
asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Company continues to recognise the transferred asset 
to the extent of the Company™s continuing involvement. In that case, the Company also recognises an 
associated liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that re˚ects 
the rights and obligations that the Company has retained.
   
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the 
lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the 
Company could be required to repay.
  
Impairment of ˜nancial assets
   
In accordance with Ind-AS 109, the Company applies expected credit loss (ECL) model for measurement 
and recognition of impairment loss on the following ˜nancial assets and credit risk exposure:
  
a)
  
Financial assets that are debt instruments, and are measured at amortised cost e.g., loans, debt 
securities, deposits, and bank balance.
  
b)
  
Trade receivables - The application of simpli˜ed approach does not require the Company to track 
changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each 
reporting date, right from its initial recognition. Trade receivables are tested for impairment on a 
speci˜c basis after considering the sanctioned credit limits, security like letters of credit, security 
deposit collected etc. and expectations about future cash ˚ows.
  
Financial liabilities
  
Classi˜cation
   
The Company classi˜es all ˜nancial liabilities as subsequently measured at amortised cost, except for 
˜nancial liabilities at fair value through pro˜t or loss. Such liabilities, including derivatives that are 
liabilities, shall be subsequently measured at fair value.
  
Initial recognition and measurement
   
Financial liabilities are classi˜ed, at initial recognition, as ˜nancial liabilities at fair value through pro˜t 
or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an 
effective hedge, as appropriate.
   
All ˜nancial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and 
payables, net of directly attributable and incremental transaction cost.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
87
 
h)
 
Financial Instruments: (Continued)
   
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees 
or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as ˜nance costs in the 
statement of pro˜t and loss.
   
The Company™s ˜nancial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings including 
bank overdrafts and derivative ˜nancial instruments.
  
Derecognition
   
A ˜nancial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or 
expires. When an existing ˜nancial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially 
different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modi˜ed, such an exchange or 
modi˜cation is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. 
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the statement of pro˜t or loss.
  
Offsetting of ˜nancial instruments
   
Financial assets and ˜nancial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet if 
there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to 
settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
 
i)
 
Valuation of Inventories:
   
Inventories of Raw Materials, Packing Materials, Stores and Spares, Work-in Progress, Traded goods and 
Finished goods are valued ‚at cost and net realisable value™ whichever is lower. Cost comprises all cost of 
purchase, appropriate direct production overheads and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories 
to their present location and condition. Cost formulae used is ‚Weighted Average Cost™. Due allowance is 
estimated and made for defective and obsolete items, wherever necessary, based on the past experience 
of the Company. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less 
the estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Raw materials 
and other supplies held for use in the production of inventories are not written down below cost except 
in case where material prices have declined and it is estimated that the cost of the ˜nished product will 
exceed its net realisable value.
 
j)
 
Employee Benefits:
  
Short Term Employee Bene˜ts
   
All employee bene˜ts payable within twelve months of rendering the service are recognised in the 
period in which the employee renders the related service.
  
Post Employment / Retirement Bene˜ts
   
Contribution to De˜ned Contribution Plans such as Provident Fund, Employees™ State Insurance 
Corporation, etc., are charged to the Statement of Pro˜t and Loss as incurred.
   
De˜ned Bene˜t Plans Œ The present value of the obligation under such plans is determined based on an 
actuarial valuation by an independent actuary at the end of each year, using the Projected Unit Credit 
Method. In the case of gratuity, which is funded, the fair value of the plan assets is reduced from the 
gross obligation under the de˜ned bene˜t plans, to recognise the obligation on net basis.
   
Remeasurement of net de˜ned bene˜t liability, which comprises actuarial gains and losses and the 
return on plan assets (excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any excluding interest), 
are recognized immediately in other comprehensive income.
  
Other Long Term Employee Bene˜ts
  
Compensated Absences
   
Accumulated compensated absences, which are expected to be availed or encashed within 12 months 
from the end of the year-end are treated as short term employee bene˜ts. The obligation towards the 
same is measured at the expected cost of accumulating compensated absences as the additional amount 
expected to be paid as a result of the unused entitlement as at the year-end. Accumulated compensated 
absences, which are expected to be availed or encashed beyond 12 months from the end of the year-
end are treated as other long-term employee bene˜ts. The Company™s liability is actuarially determined 
(using the Projected Unit Credit method) at the end of each year. Actuarial losses/ gains are recognised 
in the Statement of Pro˜t and Loss in the year in which they arise.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
88
 
k)
 
Foreign Exchange Transactions:
   
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Company 
at the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
   
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional 
currency at the exchange rate at the reporting date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured 
at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate when 
the fair value was determined. Foreign currency differences are generally recognised in pro˜t or loss. 
Non-monetary items that are measured based on historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using 
the exchange rate as at the date of the transaction.
 
l)
 
Borrowing Costs:
   
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset that necessarily 
takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of 
that asset till the date it is ready for its intended use or sale. Other borrowing costs are recognised as an 
expense in the period in which they are incurred.
 
m)
 
Revenue Recognition:
   
The Company derives revenues primarily from sale of manufactured goods, traded goods and related 
services.
   
Revenue is recognised on satisfaction of performance obligation upon transfer of control of promised 
products or services to customers in an amount that re˚ects the consideration the Company expects to 
receive in exchange for those products or services. The performance obligations in our contracts are 
ful˜lled at the time of dispatch, delivery or upon formal customer acceptance depending on customer 
terms.
   
Revenue is measured based on transaction price which is fair value of the consideration received or 
receivable, after deduction of any discounts, sales incentives / schemes and any taxes or duties collected 
on behalf of the government such as goods and services tax, etc. Accumulated experience is used to 
estimate the provision for such discounts and sales incentives / schemes. Revenue is only recognised to 
the extent that it is highly probable a signi˜cant reversal will not occur.
   
The Company recognises provision for sales return, based on the historical results, measured on net basis 
of the margin of the sale. An estimate is made of goods that will be returned and a liability is recognised 
for this amount using a best estimate based on accumulated experience.
   
Dividend income is recognized in statement of pro˜t and loss only when the right to receive payment is 
established.
  
Export incentives receivable under various schemes are accounted on accrual basis.
  
Interest income is recognized using the effective interest rate method.
 
n)
 
Leases:
   
At the inception it is assessed, whether a contract is a lease or contains a lease. A contract is a lease or 
contains a lease if it conveys the right to control the use of an identi˜ed asset, for a period of time, in 
exchange for consideration.
   
To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identi˜ed asset, Company assesses 
whether the contract involves the use of an identi˜ed asset. Use may be speci˜ed explicitly or implicitly.
  




throughout the period of use



determined when Company has the right to use the asset or Company designed the asset in a way 
that predetermines how and for what purpose it will be used.
   
At the commencement or modi˜cation of a contract, that contains a lease component, Company allocates 
the consideration in the contract, to each lease component, on the basis of its relative standalone prices. 
For leases of property, it is elected not to separate non-lease components and account for the lease and 
non-lease components as a single lease component.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
89
 
n)
 
Leases: (Continued)
  
As a Lessee:
  
Company recognizes a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date.
  
Right-of-use asset (ROU):
   
The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost. Cost comprises of the initial amount of the lease 
liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, any initial direct 
costs incurred by the lessee, an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to 
restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located less any lease incentives received.
   
After the commencement date, a lessee shall measure the right-of-use asset applying cost model, which 
is Cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses and also adjusted for 
certain re-measurements of the lease liability.
   
Right-of-use asset is depreciated using straight-line method from the commencement date to the end of 
the lease term. If the lease transfers the ownership of the underlying asset to the Company at the end 
of the lease term or the cost of the right-of-use asset re˚ects Company will exercise the purchase option, 
ROU will be depreciated over the useful life of the underlying asset, which is determined based on the 
same basis as property, plant and equipment.
  
Lease liability:
   
Lease liability is initially measured at the present value of lease payments that are not paid at the 
commencement date. Discounting is done using the implicit interest rate in the lease, if that rate cannot 
be readily determined, then using Company™s incremental borrowing rate. Incremental borrowing rate is 
determined based on entity™s borrowing rate adjusted for terms of the lease and type of the asset leased.
   
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprises of ˜xed payments (including 
in substance ˜xed payments), variable lease payments that depends on an index or a rate, initially 
measured using the index or rate at the commencement date, amount expected to be payable under 
a residual value guarantee, the exercise price under a purchase option that the Company is reasonably 
certain to exercise, lease payments in an optional renewal period if the Company is reasonably certain 
to exercise an extension option, and penalties for early termination of a lease unless the Company is 
reasonably certain not to terminate early.
   
Lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Lease liability is re-
measured when there is a change in the lease term, a
 
change in its assessment of whether it will exercise 
a purchase, extension or termination option or a revised in-substance ˜xed lease payment, a
 
change 
in the amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee and a change in future lease 
payments arising from change in an index or rate.
   
When the lease liability is re-measured, corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of 
the right-of-use asset. If the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero it will be 
recorded in statement of pro˜t and loss.
   
Right-of-use asset is presented under ﬁProperty Plant and Equipmentﬂ and lease liabilities are presented 
under ﬁFinancial liabilitiesﬂ in the balance sheet.
   
Company has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases. The 
lease payments associated with these leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term.
  
Lessor
   
At the commencement or modi˜cation of a contract, that contains a lease component, Company allocates 
the consideration in the contract, to each lease component, on the basis of its relative standalone prices.
   
At the inception of the lease, it is determined whether it is a ˜nance lease or an operating lease. If the 
lease transfers
 
substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset, 
then it is a ˜nancial lease, otherwise it is an operating lease.
   
If the lease arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, then the consideration in the 
contract is allocated using the principles of IND AS 115. The Company tests for the impairment losses at 
the year end. Payment received under operating lease is recognised as income on straight line basis, over 
the lease term.
   
The accounting policies applicable to the Company as a lessor, in the comparative period, were not 
different from IND AS 116.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
90
 
o)
 
Impairment of non-financial assets
   
The carrying values of assets/cash generating units at each balance sheet date are reviewed for 
impairment if any indication of impairment exists. If the carrying amount of the assets exceed the 
estimated recoverable amount, an impairment is recognised for such excess amount.
   
The recoverable amount is the greater of the net selling price and their value in use. Value in use is 
arrived at by discounting the future cash ˚ows to their present value based on an appropriate discount 
factor.
   
When there is indication that an impairment loss recognised for an asset (other than a revalued asset) 
in earlier accounting periods which no longer exists or may have decreased, such reversal of impairment 
loss is recognised in the Statement of Pro˜t and Loss, to the extent the amount was previously charged 
to the Statement of Pro˜t and Loss. In case of revalued assets, such reversal is not recognised.
 
p)
 
Cash and cash equivalents
   
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term 
deposits with remaining maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insigni˜cant risk of 
changes in value.
   
For the purpose of the statement of cash ˚ows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term 
deposits, as de˜ned above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as they are considered an integral part 
of the Company™s cash management.
 
q)
 
Taxation:
   
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. It is recognised in pro˜t or loss except to the 
extent that it relates to a business combination, or items recognised directly in equity or in OCI.
  
i)
 
Current tax
    
Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the 
year and any adjustment to the tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years. It is measured 
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Current tax also includes any 
tax arising from dividends.
   
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only if, the Company:
   
a)
 
 has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts; and
   
b)
 
intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
   
Uncertain Tax position:
    
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations 
in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where 
appropriate. The provision is estimated based on one of two methods, the expected value method (the 
sum of the probability weighted amounts in a range of possible outcomes) or the single most likely 
amount method, depending on which is expected to better predict the resolution of the uncertainty.
  
ii)
 
Deferred tax
    
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for ˜nancial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. 
Deferred tax is not recognised for:



a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable pro˜t or loss;



the Company is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is 
probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and


     
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses, unused tax credits and deductible 
temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that future taxable pro˜ts will be available, 
against which they can be used. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are 
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax bene˜t will be realised; 
such reductions are reversed when the probability of future taxable pro˜ts improves.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
91
 
q)
 
Taxation: (Continued)
     
Unrecognized deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and recognised to the 
extent that it has become probable that future taxable pro˜ts will be available against which 
they can be used.
     
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences 
when they reverse, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
     
The measurement of deferred tax re˚ects the tax consequences that would follow from the 
manner in which the Company expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying 
amount of its assets and liabilities.
    
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only if:
    
a)
  
The entity has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities; and
    
b)
  
The deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the 
same taxation authority on the same taxable entity.
      
Deferred tax asset / liabilities in respect of on temporary differences, which originate and 
reverse during the tax holiday period are not recognised. Deferred tax assets / liabilities in 
respect of temporary differences that originate during the tax holiday period but reverse 
after the tax holiday period are recognised.
 
r)
 
Government Grants:
   
Grants received from the government are recognized at their fair value where there is reasonable 
assurance that the grant will be received and the Company will comply with the conditions.
   
Government grants related to income are deferred and recognized in the pro˜t or loss over the period 
necessary to match them with the costs that they are intended to compensate and netted off with the 
expense in the statement of pro˜t and loss.
   
Government grants related to purchase of property plant and equipment are recognised by deducting 
the grant from the carrying amount of the property plant and equipment in which case the grant is 
recognised in pro˜t or loss as a reduction of depreciation charged.
 
s)
 
Provisions, Contingent Assets and Contingent Liabilities:
   
A provision is recognised when the company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result 
of a past event and it is probable that an out˚ow of resources embodying economic bene˜ts will be 
required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. These are reviewed 
at each balance sheet date and adjusted to re˚ect the current management estimates.
   
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected 
future cash ˚ows speci˜c to the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised as ˜nance cost.
   
Contingent Liabilities are disclosed in respect of possible obligations that arise from past events, but 
their existence is con˜rmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events 
not wholly within the control of the Company.
   
A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events and whose existence will be con˜rmed 
only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the 
control of the entity. 
   
Contingent Assets are not recognised till the realization of the income is virtually certain. However, the 
same are disclosed in the ˜nancial statements where an in˚ow of economic bene˜ts is probable.
 
t)
 
Earnings per share
   
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net pro˜t for the period attributable to the equity 
shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the 
period. The weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period and for all periods 
presented is adjusted for events, such as bonus shares, other than the conversion of potential equity 
shares that have changed the number of equity shares outstanding, without a corresponding change in 
resources.
   
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, the net pro˜t for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders and the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period is 
adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
92
34.
 
Contingent Liabilities and commitments to the extent not provided for in respect of:
 
a)
 
Contingent liabilities :-
 
1)
(
`
 in Lakhs)
Sr. no.
Particulars
31
st
 March, 2021
31st March, 2020
i)
Excise and Service Tax matters
290.31
290.31
ii)
Sales Tax matters *
966.11
1,117.23
iii)
Income Tax matters
29.58
29.58
iii)
On account of Cross Subsidy Surcharge on electricity
9.38
9.38
   
* Includes 
`
 842.32 lakhs (Previous Year 
`
 972.61 lakhs) paid in full against the disputed Sales Tax liability 
under the Kerala General Sales Tax Act, 1963. The matter is pending for hearing in the Honorable 
Supreme Court of India.
   
Note: The Excise and Service Tax and Sales Tax demands are being contested by the Company at various 
levels. The Company has been legally advised that it has a good case and the demands by the authorities 
are not tenable. Future cash ˚ows in respect of these are determinable only on receipt of judgements / 
decisions pending with various forums/ authorities.
 
b)
 
Commitments
   
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for (net 
of advances) ` 4,974.66 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 1,900.46 lakhs).
35.
 
Provision for warranty and other provisions:
(
`
 in Lakhs)
31
st
 March, 2021
31
st
 March, 2021
31st March, 2020
31st March, 2020
Warranty 
Provision
Other 
Provisions
Warranty 
Provision
Other 
Provisions
Opening Balance
578.23
40.00
604.73
100.00
Additions
682.22
0.00
496.86
0.00
Utilisations / Reversals
641.67
0.00
523.36
60.00
Closing Balance
618.78
40.00
578.23
40.00
  
Provision is estimated for expected warranty claim in respect of products sold during the year based on past 
experience regarding defective claim of products and cost of recti˜cation or replacement. It is expected that 
most of this cost will be incurred over next 12
 
months which is as per warranty terms.
  
Other provisions are provisions in respect of probable claims, the out˚ow of which would depend on the 
cessation of the respective events.
36.
 
Share capital
 
a)
  
Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to Equity Shares:
 The Company has only one class 
of equity shares having a par value of 
`
10 per share. Each shareholder is eligible for one vote per share 
held. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in 
the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the 
equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all 
preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding.
 
b)
  
Details of equity shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate equity 
shares in the Company:
Name of the Shareholder
As at 31
st
 March, 2021
As at 31
st
 March, 2020
No. of
shares held
% of 
Holding
No. of
shares held
% of 
Holding
Hiten V. Parekh
1,901,258
12.74%
1,892,258
12.68%
Manish V. Parekh
1,515,563
10.16%
1,551,563
10.40%
Nayan S. Parekh
2,201,704
14.75%
2,189,704
14.67%
Nilkamal Builders Private Limited
1,464,000
9.81%
1,464,000
9.81%
Heirloom Finance Private Limited
912,000
6.11%
912,000
6.11%
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
93
 
c)
  
Reconciliation of number of equity shares outstanding as at the beginning and closing of the year
Particulars
2020-21
2019-20
Number
`
 (in Lakhs)
Number
`
 (in Lakhs)
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the year
14,922,525
1,492.25
14,922,525
1,492.25
Shares issued during the year
-
-
-
-
Shares bought back during the year
-
-
-
-
Shares outstanding at the end of the year
14,922,525
1,492.25
14,922,525
1,492.25
37.
 
Borrowings:
 
(A)
 
Secured loans:
  
(a)
 
Working Capital loans:
    
Working capital facilities of 
`
 Nil (Previous year 
` 
Nil ) from Banks are secured on ˜rst pari passu basis 
by way of hypothecation of current assets (inventories and trade receivables) of the Company, second 
pari passu charge by way of equitable mortgage on the Company™s immoveable property. Working 
Capital Loans repayable on Demand having Interest Rate from 7.10 % to 8.90 % p.a. (Previous Year 
9.25% p.a to 9.60% p.a).
  
 (b)
 
Foreign Currency Term loans:
    
Foreign currency term loans of 
`
 4,636.57 Lakhs (Previous year 
`
 6,634.60 Lakhs) from the Banks 
are secured on ˜rst pari passu basis by way of equitable mortgage created on Company™s moveable 
properties. These loans are repayable in equal quarterly installment, last installments due on March 
2023 and February 2024 as per repayment schedules, having interest rate from 3 month LIBOR 
+1.05% to 1.38% p.a. which are reset periodically.
38.
 
Derivative Instruments outstanding as at Balance Sheet date:
 
(a)
 
Forward Contracts against imports:
   
Forward contracts to buy USD
 
29.23 Lakhs and CNY 15.61 Lakhs (Previous Year USD 10.52 Lakhs and CNY 
5.00 Lakhs) amounting to 
`
 2,319.01 lakhs (Previous Year 
`
 852.54 lakhs).
 
(b)
 
Forward Contracts against exports:
   
Forward contracts to sell USD
 
5.25 Lakhs (Previous Year USD Nil Lakhs) amounting to 
`
 385.54 lakhs 
(Previous Year 
`
 Nil lakhs).
   
The above contracts / options have been undertaken to hedge against the foreign exchange exposures 
arising from transactions like import of goods.
 
(c)
 
USD Floating rate/INR Floating rate cross-currency interest rate swap (CCIRS):
   
Outstanding USD/INR Floating rate cross-currency interest rate swap USD 63.42 Lakhs (Previous year USD 
87.68 lakhs) amounting to 
`
 4,636.57 Lakhs (Previous Year 
` 
6,634.60 Lakhs).
   
The above contracts have been undertaken to hedge against the foreign exchange exposures arising 
from foreign currency loan and interest there on, resulting net gain recognized in Cash ˚ow Hedge 
Reserve of 
` 
61.44 Lakhs ( Previous Year loss of 
`
.60.61 lakhs)
39.
 
Dues to micro and small suppliers
  
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, (MSMED) which came into force 
from 2 October 2006, certain disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium 
enterprises. On the basis of the information and records available with the management, there are no 
outstanding dues to the Micro and
 
Small enterprises as de˜ned in the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006.
Particulars
31
st
 March, 2021
31
st
 March, 2020
Principal amount remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the year end
-
-
Interest due thereon
-
-
Amount of interest paid by the Company in terms of section 16 of 
the MSMED, along with the amount of the payment made to the 
supplier beyond the appointed day during the accounting year
-
-
Amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during 
the period) but without adding the interest speci˜ed under the MSMED
-
-
Amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of the 
accounting year
-
-
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
94
40
.
 
Related Party Disclosures 
(Continued) 
 
(
`
 
in lakhs)
Subsidiaries
Joint 
Venture
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises 
owned or 
signi˜cantly 
in˚uenced 
by key 
management 
personnel 
or their 
relatives
Total
Subsidiaries
Joint 
Venture
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises 
owned or 
signi˜cantly 
in˚uenced 
by key 
management 
personnel 
or their 
relatives
Total
2020-21
2020-21
2020-21
2020-21
2020-21
2020-21
2019-20
2019-20
2019-20
2019-20
2019-20
2019-20
Sales of Finished Goods / Others
3,496.29
1,086.31
-
-
232.48
4,815.08
796.24
1,594.47
-
-
265.99
2,656.70
Sales of Fixed Assets
15.44
-
-
-
-
15.44
-
-
-
-
-
-
Purchases of raw materials, intermediaries 
and ˜nished goods
669.42
43.40
-
-
3,036.13
3,748.95
159.07
270.68
-
-
2,778.70
3,208.45
Paid for services and labour charges
77.16
-
-
-
119.19
196.35
24.55
-
-
-
155.83
180.38
Received for services & labour charges
4.63
-
-
-
-
4.63
23.92
15.76
-
-
-
39.68
Deputation Charges
19.37
-
-
-
-
19.37
12.59
8.01
-
-
-
20.60
Technical and Management Fees received
587.95
154.18
-
-
-
742.13
347.63
656.05
-
-
-
1,003.68
Dividend received
-
10.50
-
-
-
10.50
163.99
42.00
-
-
-
205.99
Purchase of ˜xed assets
331.91
 -
-
331.91
506.91
 127.48
-
634.39
Rent paid
8.68
-
-
-
291.74
300.42
9.96
-
-
-
309.81
319.77
Remuneration to Directors
-
-
 1,111.28
-
-
1,111.28
-
-
1,445.95
-
-
1,445.95
Salary Paid
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
32.53
-
32.53
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses 
(CSR)
310.00
-
-
-
-
310.00
338.00
-
-
-
-
338.00
Board & Audit Committee sitting fees
-
-
46.60
-
-
46.60
-
-
52.60
-
-
52.60
Rent Received
12.23
24.43
-
-
-
36.66
8.31
30.78
-
-
-
39.09
Reimbursement of Expenses
27.89
9.67
-
-
-
37.56
30.60
28.13
-
-
-
58.73
Balances Outstanding at the year end:
Deposits Receivable
-
-
-
-
720.00
720.00
-
-
-
-
720.00
720.00
Deposits Payable
0.74
-
-
-
0.74
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Trade and Other Receivables
1,558.76
250.73
-
-
47.57
1,857.06
648.47
316.37
-
-
18.95
983.79
Other Payables
101.37
28.66
-
-
42.39
172.42
60.71
27.88
-
-
95.98
184.57
Note: 
 
1.
  
The remuneration paid to key managerial personal excludes gratuity and compensated absences as the provision is computed for th
e Company as a 
whole and separate ˜gures are not available.
  
2.
  
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm™s length transactions. Outstanding balances 
at the year-end are unsecured.
40
.
 
Related Party Disclosures:
 
Names of related parties and description of relationship
I
Subsidiaries where control exists
Nilkamal Eswaran Plastics Private Limited
Nilkamal Eswaran Marketing Private Limited
Nilkamal Storage Systems Private Limited with effect from 
23
rd
 August 2019 (formerly known as Nilkamal BITO Storage 
Systems Private Limited)
Nilkamal Crates and Bins, FZE.
Nilkamal Foundation ( a Section 8 Company)
II
Joint Ventures
Nilkamal Storage Systems Private Limited ceased to be joint 
venture effective from 22nd August 2019 (formerly known 
as Nilkamal BITO Storage Systems Private Limited)
Cambro Nilkamal Private Limited
III
Key Management Personnel
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh, Chairman Emeritus (effective from 
15
th
 August, 2020 and previously designated as Chairman)
Mr. Sharad V. Parekh, Chairman (effective from 15
th
 August, 
2020 and previously designated as Managing Director)
Mr. Hiten V. Parekh, Managing Director (effective from 
15
th
 August, 2020 and previously designated as Executive 
Director)
Mr. Manish V. Parekh, Joint Managing Director (effective 
from 15
th
 August, 2020 and previously designated as 
Executive Director)
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh, Executive Director
Mr. Mihir H. Parekh, Executive Director (effective from 1
st
 
February, 2020)
Independent Director
:
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy
Mr. Mahendra V. Doshi
Mr. Mufazzal S. Federal
Mr. S. K. Palekar
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
Mr. Krishnamurthi Venkataraman
IV
Relatives of Key Management Personnel
Mr. Mihir H. Parekh (effective from 1
st
 February,2020 
became Executive Director)
V
Enterprise owned or signi˜cantly 
in˚uenced by key Management Personnel 
or their relatives, where transactions have 
taken place
Nilkamal Crates & Containers
 
M. Tech Industries
 
Raga Plast Private Limited
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
95
40
.
 
Related Party Disclosures 
(Continued) 
 
(
`
 
in lakhs)
Subsidiaries
Joint 
Venture
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises 
owned or 
signi˜cantly 
in˚uenced 
by key 
management 
personnel 
or their 
relatives
Total
Subsidiaries
Joint 
Venture
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises 
owned or 
signi˜cantly 
in˚uenced 
by key 
management 
personnel 
or their 
relatives
Total
2020-21
2020-21
2020-21
2020-21
2020-21
2020-21
2019-20
2019-20
2019-20
2019-20
2019-20
2019-20
Sales of Finished Goods / Others
3,496.29
1,086.31
-
-
232.48
4,815.08
796.24
1,594.47
-
-
265.99
2,656.70
Sales of Fixed Assets
15.44
-
-
-
-
15.44
-
-
-
-
-
-
Purchases of raw materials, intermediaries 
and ˜nished goods
669.42
43.40
-
-
3,036.13
3,748.95
159.07
270.68
-
-
2,778.70
3,208.45
Paid for services and labour charges
77.16
-
-
-
119.19
196.35
24.55
-
-
-
155.83
180.38
Received for services & labour charges
4.63
-
-
-
-
4.63
23.92
15.76
-
-
-
39.68
Deputation Charges
19.37
-
-
-
-
19.37
12.59
8.01
-
-
-
20.60
Technical and Management Fees received
587.95
154.18
-
-
-
742.13
347.63
656.05
-
-
-
1,003.68
Dividend received
-
10.50
-
-
-
10.50
163.99
42.00
-
-
-
205.99
Purchase of ˜xed assets
331.91
 -
-
331.91
506.91
 127.48
-
634.39
Rent paid
8.68
-
-
-
291.74
300.42
9.96
-
-
-
309.81
319.77
Remuneration to Directors
-
-
 1,111.28
-
-
1,111.28
-
-
1,445.95
-
-
1,445.95
Salary Paid
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
32.53
-
32.53
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses 
(CSR)
310.00
-
-
-
-
310.00
338.00
-
-
-
-
338.00
Board & Audit Committee sitting fees
-
-
46.60
-
-
46.60
-
-
52.60
-
-
52.60
Rent Received
12.23
24.43
-
-
-
36.66
8.31
30.78
-
-
-
39.09
Reimbursement of Expenses
27.89
9.67
-
-
-
37.56
30.60
28.13
-
-
-
58.73
Balances Outstanding at the year end:
Deposits Receivable
-
-
-
-
720.00
720.00
-
-
-
-
720.00
720.00
Deposits Payable
0.74
-
-
-
0.74
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Trade and Other Receivables
1,558.76
250.73
-
-
47.57
1,857.06
648.47
316.37
-
-
18.95
983.79
Other Payables
101.37
28.66
-
-
42.39
172.42
60.71
27.88
-
-
95.98
184.57
Note: 
 
1.
  
The remuneration paid to key managerial personal excludes gratuity and compensated absences as the provision is computed for th
e Company as a 
whole and separate ˜gures are not available.
  
2.
  
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm™s length transactions. Outstanding balances 
at the year-end are unsecured.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
96
41
.
 
Information on Joint Ventures:
 
Jointly Controlled Entities:
Name of the Joint Venture
Country
of Incorporation
Percentage of 
Ownership Interest
Nilkamal Storage Systems Private Limited (Ceased to be Joint 
Venture effective from 22
nd
 August 2019)
India
50
Cambro Nilkamal Private Limited
India
50
 
Investment in Joint Ventures have been accounted at cost in the standalone ˜nancial statements.
42.
  
In accordance with IND AS 108 Œ Operating Segment, segment information has been given in the Consolidated 
Financial Statement of Nilkamal Limited and therefore no separate disclosure on segment information is 
given in these ˜nancial statements.
43.
 
Covid-19 Impact:
  
The year ended March 31,2021 was unprecedented due to the spread of Coronavirus pandemic across the 
globe, impacting all the geographies of our operations in the early months of the period. As per our current 
assessment, no signi˜cant impact on carrying amounts of inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, trade 
receivables, other investments and other ˜nancial assets is expected, and we continue to monitor changes in 
future economic conditions.
44.
 
Corporate Social Responsibility:
  
As required by Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013 and rules therein, a corporate social responsibility 
committee has been formed by the Company. The Company has spent the following amount during the year 
towards corporate social responsibility (CSR) for activities listed under schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013
 
(a)
  
Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year 2020-21 
`
 327.81 lakhs (Previous 
year 
` 
337.93 lakhs).
 
(b)
 
Amount spent during the year on:
                     
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
2020-21
2019-20
(i) Construction/ acquisition of any asset
(ii) On purpose other than (i) above
-
328.17
-
338.00
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
97
45
Financial instruments Œ Fair values and risk management
A.
Accounting classi˜cation and fair values
Carrying amounts and fair values of ˜nancial assets and ˜nancial liabilities, including their levels in the fair value 
hierarchy, are presented below. It does not include the fair value information for ˜nancial assets and ˜nancial liabilities 
not measured at fair value if the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2021
 Carrying amount
 Fair value
 FVTPL
FVTOCI
Amortised Cost
 Total
 Level 1
 Level 2
 Level 3
 Total
Financial assets
 Non Current
 Unquoted Equity Shares *
 42.82
 -
 0.32
 43.14
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Employee Loans
 -
 -
 257.45
 257.45
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Security Deposits
 -
 -
 2,006.34
 2,006.34
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Other ˜nancial assets
 -
 -
 44.88
 44.88
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Derivative asset
 -
 88.79
 -
 88.79
 -
 88.79
 -
 88.79
 Current
 Investments
1,000.05
 -
 -
 1,000.05
1,000.05
 -
 -
1,000.05
 Trade receivables
 -
 -
 25,743.24
25,743.24
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Cash and cash equivalents
 -
 -
 1,159.85
 1,159.85
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Other bank balances
 -
 -
 5,592.94
 5,592.94
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Loans
 -
 -
 797.23
 797.23
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Other Current Financial Assets
 -
 -
 1,747.62
 1,747.62
 -
 -
 -
 -
1,042.87
 88.79
 37,349.87
38,481.53
1,000.05
 88.79
 -
1,088.84
Financial liabilities
Non-Current Borrowings
 -
 -
 2,854.05
 2,854.05
 -
 -
 -
 -
Current Borrowings
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Trade and other payables
 -
 -
 17,326.15
17,326.15
 -
 -
 -
 -
Other Non-Current ˜nancial liabilities
 -
 -
 21,754.84
21,754.84
 -
 -
 -
 -
Other Current ˜nancial liabilities
 -
 -
 6,534.28
 6,534.28
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 48,469.32
48,469.32
 -
 -
 -
 -
31st March, 2020
 Carrying amount
 Fair value
 FVTPL
 FVTOCI
 Amortised Cost
 Total
 Level 1
 Level 2
 Level 3
 Total
Financial assets
 Non Current
 Unquoted Equity Shares *
 42.82
 -
 0.32
 43.14
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Employee Loans
 -
 -
 332.17
 332.17
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Security Deposits
 -
 -
 2,147.99
 2,147.99
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Other ˜nancial assets
 -
 65.77
 65.77
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Derivative asset
 -
 313.03
 313.03
 313.03
 313.03
 Current
 Current investments
 -
 -
 Current
 Investments
 1,513.30
 -
 -
 1,513.30
1,513.30
 -
 -
1,513.30
 Trade receivables
 -
 -
 26,228.38
26,228.38
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Cash and cash equivalents
 -
 -
 1,032.85
 1,032.85
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Other bank balances
 -
 -
 309.58
 309.58
 -
 -
 -
 Loans
 -
 -
 1,190.79
 1,190.79
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Other Current Financial Assets
 -
 -
 1,491.32
 1,491.32
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1,556.12
 313.03
 32,799.17
34,668.32
1,513.30
 313.03
 -
1,826.33
Financial liabilities
Long term borrowings
 -
 -
 4,790.08
 4,790.08
 -
 -
 -
 -
Short term borrowings
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Trade and other payables
 -
 -
 13,453.06
13,453.06
 -
 -
 -
 -
Other Non-Current ˜nancial liabilities
 -
 -
 18,222.75
18,222.75
 -
 -
 -
 -
Other Current ˜nancial liabilities
 -
 -
 6,987.61
 6,987.61
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 43,453.50
43,453.50
 -
 -
 -
 -
 
* The fair value in respect of the unquoted equity investments is equal to the cost of the investments as 
per the contractual agreements.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
98
B.
Measurement of fair values
Valuation techniques and signi˜cant unobservable inputs
The following tables show the valuation techniques used in measuring Level 2 and Level 3 fair values, as 
well as the signi˜cant unobservable inputs used.
Financial instruments measured at fair value
Type
 Valuation technique
Forward contracts
The fair value is determined using forward exchange rates at the 
reporting date.
Security Deposits
The valuation model considers present value of expected 
payments discounted using an appropriate discounting rate.
Interest rate swaps
Present value of the estimated future cash ˚ows based on 
observable yield curves.
C.
 
Financial risk management
 
The Company has exposure to the following risks arising from ˜nancial instruments:



i.
 
Risk management framework
  
The Company™s Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of 
the Company™s Risk Management framework. The Board of Directors have adopted an Enterprise Risk 
Management Policy framed by the Company, which identi˜es the risk and lays down the risk minimization 
procedures. The Management reviews the Risk management policies and systems on a regular basis to re˚ect 
changes in market conditions and the Company™s activities, and the same is reported to the Board of Directors 
periodically. Further, the Company, in order to deal with the future risks, has in place various methods / 
processes which have been imbibed in its organizational structure and proper internal controls are in place 
to keep a check on lapses, and the same are been modi˜ed in accordance with the regular requirements.
  
The Audit Committee oversees how Management monitors compliance with the Company™s Risk Management 
policies and procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the 
risks faced by the Company. The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by the internal auditors.
ii.
 
Credit risk
  
Credit risk is the risk of ˜nancial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to a ˜nancial instrument 
fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Company™s receivables from 
customers and loans and advances.
 
The carrying amount of following ˜nancial assets represents the maximum credit exposure:
 
Trade receivables and loans and advances.
  
The Company™s exposure to credit risk is in˚uenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each 
customer in which it operates. Credit risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing credit limits 
and continuously monitoring the creditworthiness of customers to which the Company grants credit terms 
in the normal course of business.
  
The Risk Management Committee has established a credit policy under which each new customer is 
analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Company™s standard payment and delivery terms and 
conditions are offered. Further for domestic sales, the company segments the customers into Distributors 
and Others for credit monitoring.
  
The Company maintains security deposits for sales made to its distributors. For other trade receivables, 
the company individually monitors the sanctioned credit limits as against the outstanding balances. 
Accordingly, the Company makes speci˜c provisions against such trade receivables wherever required and 
monitors the same at periodic intervals.
 
The Company monitors each loans and advances given and makes any speci˜c provision wherever required.
  
The Company establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of expected losses in 
respect of trade receivables and loans and advances.
45
Financial instruments Œ Fair values and risk management 
(Continued)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
99
 
Impairment
 
At 31
st
 March , 2021, the ageing of trade receivables was as follows.
 Carrying amount (
`
 in lakhs)
31
st
 March, 2021
31
st
 March, 2020
Neither past due nor impaired
 13,471.47
 9,098.02
Past due 1Œ90 days
 9,543.46
 12,649.58
Past due 91Œ180 days
 1,599.51
 2,786.06
Past due 181-365 days
 1,070.28
 1,386.41
Past due 366 days
 1,333.27
 1,348.31
 27,017.99
 27,268.38
 
Management believes that the unimpaired amounts which are past due are collectible in full.
 Trade receivables 
Impairments
 Loans
Balance as at 1
st
 April , 2019
 841.76
 52.05
Impairment loss recognised
 636.54
 -
Balance written back
 (314.86)
 -
Amounts written off
 (123.44)
 -
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2020
 1,040.00
 52.05
Impairment loss recognised
 771.32
 -
Balance written back
 (448.16)
 -
Amounts written off
 (88.41)
 -
Balance as at 31
st
 March, 2021
 1,274.75
 52.05
 
Cash and cash equivalents and other Bank balances
  
The Company held cash and cash equivalents and other bank balances of 
`
 6,752.79 lakhs as on 31 March 
2021 (Previous year 
`
 1,342.43 lakhs). The cash and cash equivalents are held with bank counterparties with 
good credit ratings.
 
Derivatives
 
The derivatives are entered into with bank counterparties with good credit ratings.
 
Loans and Other ˜nancial assets:
  
The Company held loans and other ˜nancial assets of 
`
 4,942.31 lakhs as on March 31, 2021 (Previous year 
`
 5,541.07 lakhs). The loans and other ˜nancial assets are in nature of rent deposit paid to landlords, bank 
deposits with maturity more than twelve months and others and are fully recoverable.
iii.
 
Liquidity risk
  
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter dif˜culty in meeting the obligations associated 
with its ˜nancial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another ˜nancial asset. The Company™s 
approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have suf˜cient liquidity to meet its 
liabilities when they are due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable 
losses or risking damage to the Company™s reputation.
  
As of 31st March, 2021 and 31st March, 2020 the Company had unutilized credit limits from banks of 
`
 
14,000 lakhs and 
`
 14,000 lakhs respectively.
 
Maturity pro˜le of ˜nancial liabilities
  
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of ˜nancial liabilities at the reporting date. The 
amounts are gross and undiscounted, and include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of 
netting agreements.
45
Financial instruments Œ Fair values and risk management 
(Continued)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
100
45
Financial instruments Œ Fair values and risk management 
(Continued)
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2021
Contractual cash ˚ows
Carrying 
amount
Total
Less than 
6 months
6-12 
months
1-2 
years
2-5 
years
More than 
5 years
Non-derivative ˜nancial liabilities
Working Capital Borrowings
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Trade and other payables
15,007.14
15,007.14
15,007.14
 -
 -
 -
 -
Lease Liabilities
18,046.57
18,046.57
 1,301.02
1,221.83
2,356.54
3,836.64
 9,330.54
Other ˜nancial liabilities
 4,011.43
 4,011.43
 4,011.43
 -
 -
 -
 -
Derivative ˜nancial liabilities
Cross currency interest rate swaps
 4,636.57
4,636.57
 891.26
891.26
2,727.12
 126.93
 -
Forward exchange contracts used 
for hedging
- Out˚ow
 2,319.01
 2,319.01
 2,319.01
 -
 -
 -
 -
31st March, 2020
 Contractual cash ˚ows
Carrying 
amount
 Total
Less than 
6 months
 6-12 
months
 1-2 
years
 2-5 
years
More than 
5 years
Non-derivative ˜nancial liabilities
 
Working Capital Borrowings
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Trade and other payables
12,600.52
12,600.52
 12,600.52
 -
 -
 -
 -
Lease Liabilities
15,510.16
15,510.16
 1,602.38
 1,605.37
 3,225.72
 6,638.15
 2,438.54
Other ˜nancial liabilities
 3,782.35
 3,782.35
 3,782.35
 -
 -
 -
 -
Derivative ˜nancial liabilities
Interest rate swaps
 6,634.60
 6,634.60
 917.99
 917.99
 1,835.99
 2,962.62
 -
Forward exchange contracts used 
for hedging
- Out˚ow
 852.54
 852.54
 852.54
 -
 -
 -
 -
  
The gross in˚ows/(out˚ows) disclosed in the above table represent the contractual undiscounted cash 
˚ows relating to the ˜nancial liabilities which are not usually closed out before contractual maturity. The 
disclosure shows net cash ˚ow amounts for derivatives that are net cash-settled and gross cash in˚ow and 
out˚ow amounts for derivatives that have simultaneous gross cash settlement.
iv.
 
Market risk
  
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices Œ such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and 
equity prices Œ will affect the Company™s income or the value of its holdings of ˜nancial instruments. Market 
risk is attributable to all market risk sensitive ˜nancial instruments including foreign currency receivables 
and payables and long term debt. We are exposed to market risk primarily related to foreign exchange 
rate risk, interest rate risk and the market value of our investments. Thus, our exposure to market risk is a 
function of investing and borrowing activities and revenue generating and operating activities in foreign 
currency. The objective of market risk management is to avoid excessive exposure in our foreign currency 
revenues and costs.
 
Currency risk
  
The Company is exposed to currency risk on account of its borrowings and other payables in foreign 
currency. The functional currency of the Company is Indian Rupee. The Company uses forward exchange 
contracts to hedge its currency risk, most with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
101
Exposure to currency risk(Exposure in different currencies converted to functional currency i.e. INR)
The currency pro˜le of ˜nancial assets and ˜nancial liabilities as at 31st March, 2021 and 31st March, 
2020 are as below:
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2021
 USD
 EURO
 GBP
 CNY
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables
 1,878.04
 171.42
 16.54
 14.73
Less: Forward Contracts
 (385.54)
 1,492.50
 171.42
 16.54
 14.73
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
 1,352.16
 219.14
 20.32
 223.05
Forcasted Purchase
 790.59
 -
 -
 -
Less: Forward contracts
 (2,142.75)
 -
 -
 (176.26)
 -
 219.14
 20.32
 46.79
Net Exposure
 1,492.50
 (47.72)
 (3.78)
 (32.06)
31st March, 2020
 USD
 EURO
 GBP
CNY
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables
 1,939.50
 209.78
 3.73
 9.17
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 38.85
 -
 -
 -
 1,978.35
 209.78
 3.73
 9.17
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
1,326.52
 59.95
 3.03
 150.77
Less: Forward contracts
 (799.20)
 -
 -
 (53.34)
527.32
 59.95
 3.03
 97.43
Net Exposure
1,451.03
 149.83
 0.70
 (88.26)
The following signi˜cant exchange rates have been applied during the year.
INR
Year-end spot rate
31st March, 2021
31st March, 2020
USD 1
 73.12
 75.67
EUR1
 85.71
 82.77
CNY
 11.15
 10.65
GBP1
 100.71
 93.36
 
Sensitivity analysis
  
A reasonably possible strengthening (weakening) of the foreign Currency against the Indian Rupee at 31st 
March would have affected the measurement of ˜nancial instruments denominated in foreign currencies 
and affected equity and pro˜t or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other 
variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant and ignores any impact of forecast sales and purchases.
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2021
31st March, 2020
Pro˜t or loss
Pro˜t or loss
Effect in INR
Strengthening
Weakening
Strengthening
Weakening
USD - 3% Movement
 44.78
 (44.78)
43.53
 (43.53)
EUR - 3% Movement
 (1.43)
 1.43
 4.49
 (4.49)
CNY - 3% Movement
 (0.96)
 0.96
 (2.65)
 2.65
GBP - 3% Movement
 (0.11)
 0.11
 0.02
 (0.02)
 42.27
 (42.27)
45.39
 (45.39)
45
Financial instruments Œ Fair values and risk management 
(Continued)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
102
45
Financial instruments Œ Fair values and risk management 
(Continued)
 
Interest rate risk
  
Interest rate risk can be either fair value interest rate risk or cash ˚ow interest rate risk. Fair value interest 
rate risk is the risk of changes in fair values of ˜xed interest bearing investments because of ˚uctuations 
in the interest rates. Cash ˚ow interest rate risk is the risk that the future cash ˚ows of ˚oating interest 
bearing investments will ˚uctuate because of ˚uctuations in the interest rates.
 
Exposure to interest rate risk
  
Company™s interest rate risk arises from borrowings. The interest rate pro˜le of the Company™s interest-
bearing ˜nancial instruments as reported to the management of the Company is as follow.
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2021
31st March, 2020
Borrowings
Fixed rate borrowings
 -
 -
Variable rate borrowings
 4,636.57
 6,634.60
Less: Interest rate Swaps
 (4,636.57)
 (6,634.60)
Total
 -
 -
 
Cash ˚ow sensitivity analysis for variable-rate instruments 
  
A reasonably possible change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have 
increased (decreased) pro˜t or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other 
variables, in particular foreign currency exchange rates, remain constant.
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
Pro˜t or (loss)
100 bp increase
100 bp decrease
March 31, 2021
Variable-rate instruments
 (46.37)
 46.37
Interest rate swaps
 46.37
 (46.37)
Cash ˚ow sensitivity (net)
 -
 -
March 31, 2020
Variable-rate instruments
 (66.35)
 66.35
Interest rate swaps
 66.35
 (66.35)
Cash ˚ow sensitivity (net)
 -
 -
  
The risk estimates provided assume a parallel shift of 100 basis points interest rate across all yield curves. This 
calculation also assumes that the change occurs at the balance sheet date and has been calculated based 
on risk exposures outstanding as at that date. The period end balances are not necessarily representative 
of the average debt outstanding during the period.
46
 
Capital Management
  
For the purpose of the Company™s capital management, capital includes issued capital and other equity 
reserves . The primary objective of the Company™s Capital Management is to maximise shareholders 
value. The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in the light of changes in 
economic environment and the requirements of the ˜nancial covenants. 
 
The Company monitors capital using debt to equity ratio.
(
`
 in lakhs)
As at 
31st March, 2021
As at 
31st March, 2020
Non-Current Borrowings
 2,854.05
 4,790.08
Current Borrowings
 -
 -
Current maturity of long term debt
 1,782.52
 1,844.52
Gross Debt
 4,636.57
 6,634.60
Total equity
 1,05,320.93
 95,358.70
Adjusted Gross debt to equity ratio
 0.04
 0.07
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
103
47
 
Employee Bene˜ts
 
The Company contributes to the following post-employment de˜ned bene˜t plans in India.
(i)
 
De˜ned Contribution Plans:
  
The contributions to the Provident Fund and Family Pension Fund of certain employees are made to a 
Government administered Provident Fund and there are no further obligations beyond making such 
contribution.
  
The Company recognised 
`
 793.40 lakhs for year ended 31 March 2021 (Previous year 
`
 823.60 lakhs) 
provident fund contributions in the Statement of Pro˜t and Loss.
 
The contributions payable to these plans by the Company are at rates speci˜ed in the rules of the schemes.
(ii)
 
De˜ned Bene˜t Plan:
A.
 
Gratuity
  
The Company participates in the Employees Gratuity scheme, a funded de˜ned bene˜t plan for qualifying 
employees. Gratuity is payable to all eligible employees on death or on separation / termination in terms 
of the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972.
  
The most recent actuarial valuation of plan assets and the present value of the de˜ned bene˜t obligation for 
gratuity were carried out as at March 31, 2021. The present value of the de˜ned bene˜t obligations and the 
related current service cost and past service cost, were measured using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Gratuity
Particulars
 31st March, 2021
 31st March, 2020
De˜ned bene˜t obligation
 1,949.97
 1,875.96
Fair value of Plan Assets at the end of the year
 (2,259.86)
 (1,807.26)
Net Obligation at the end of the year
 (309.89)
 68.70
B. 
 
Movement in net de˜ned bene˜t (asset) liability
  
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for net 
de˜ned bene˜t (asset) liability and its components
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Gratuity
 De˜ned bene˜t 
obligation
 Fair value of plan assets
 Net de˜ned bene˜t
(asset) liability
 31st March, 
2021
 31st March, 
2020
 31st March, 
2021
 31st March, 
2020
 31st March, 
2021
 31st March, 
2020
Opening balance
 1,875.96
 1,746.84
 1,807.26
 1,748.97
 68.70
 (2.13)
Included in pro˜t or loss
 -
 -
 117.47
 123.18
 (117.47)
 (123.18)
Current service cost
 221.55
 214.77
 -
 -
 221.55
 214.77
Interest cost (income)
 122.42
 118.80
 -
 -
 122.42
 118.80
 2,219.93
 2,080.41
 1,924.73
 1,872.15
 295.20
 208.26
Included in OCI
Remeasurement loss (gain):
Actuarial loss (gain) arising from:
 -
 -
 335.13
 -
 (335.13)
 -
Financial assumptions
 53.60
 (18.85)
 -
 -
 53.60
 (18.85)
Experience adjustment
 (125.84)
 (49.69)
 -
 -
 (125.84)
 (49.69)
 

Return on plan assets excluding interest income
 -
 -
 -
 (189.89)
 -
 189.89
 2,147.69
 2,011.87
 2,259.86
 1,682.26
 (112.17)
 329.61
Other
Contributions paid by the employer
 -
 -
 -
 125.00
 -
 (125.00)
Bene˜ts paid
 (197.72)
 (135.91)
 -
 -
 (197.72)
 (135.91)
Closing balance
 1,949.97
 1,875.96
 2,259.86
 1,807.26
 (309.89)
 68.70
Represented by
De˜ned bene˜t asset
 (2,259.86)
 (1,807.26)
De˜ned bene˜t liability
 1,949.97
 1,875.96
Net De˜ned bene˜t (asset) / liability
 (309.89)
 68.70
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
104
C.
Plan assets
Plan assets comprise the following:
(
` 
in lakhs)
 31st March, 2021
 31st March, 2020
Fund managed by Insurance Company
 2,259.86
 1,807.26
D.
De˜ned bene˜t obligations
i.
Actuarial assumptions
The following were the principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date (expressed as weighted 
averages).
 31st March, 2021
 31st March, 2020
Discount rate
6.50%p.a.
 6.80%p.a.
Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets
6.50%p.a.
 6.80%p.a.
Salary escalation rate
6.00%p.a.
 6.00%p.a.
Employee Turnover
5.00% to 1 % p.a.
5.00% to 1 % p.a.
Mortality rate
 Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2012-14) Ult.
 Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2006-08) Ult.
Assumptions regarding future mortality have been based on published statistics and mortality tables.
ii.
Sensitivity analysis
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding 
other assumptions constant, would have affected the de˜ned bene˜t obligation as follows.
(
` 
in lakhs)
 31st March, 2021
 31st March, 2020
 Increase
 Decrease
 Increase
 Decrease
Discount rate (1% movement)
 1,780.24
 2,085.03
 1,712.92
 2,065.49
Future salary growth (1% movement)
 2,084.65
 1,731.41
 2,065.11
 1,710.33
Rate of employee turnover (1% movement)
 1,906.41
 1,885.17
 1,886.08
 1,864.60
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on 
de˜ned bene˜t obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of 
the reporting period.
 
Expected future cash ˚ows
 
The expected future cash ˚ows in respect of gratuity as at March 31, 2021 were as follows.
 
Expected contribution
  
The expected contributions for de˜ned bene˜t plan for the next ˜nancial year will be in line with the 
contribution for the year ended March 31, 2021, i.e. 
`
 245.93 lakhs. 
 
Expected future bene˜t payments
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2022
 138.80
31st March, 2023
 128.01
31st March, 2024
 100.98
31st March, 2025
 116.39
Thereafter
 1,465.79
 
Compensated Absences:
  
The Compensated Absences is payable to all eligible employees for each day of accumulated leave on 
death or on resignation. Compensated Absences debited to Statement of Pro˜t and Loss during the year 
amounts to 
`
 63.05 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 
265.31 lakhs) and is included in Note 28 - ‚Employee bene˜ts 
expenses™. Accumulated non-current provision for leave encashment aggregates 
`
 416.96 lakhs (Previous 
year 
`
 480.95 lakhs) and current provision aggregates 
`
 418.36 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 377.07 lakhs).
(ii)
 
De˜ned Bene˜t Plan: 
(Continued)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
105
48
 
Hedge accounting
  
The Company™s risk management policy is to hedge its estimated foreign currency exposure in respect of 
highly probable forecast purchases and foreign currency borrowings. The Company uses forward exchange 
contracts to hedge its currency risk and cross currency interest rate swap to hedge its interest rate and 
currency risk related to foreign currency borrowings. Such contracts are generally designated as cash ˚ow 
hedges.
  
The Company determines the existence of an economic relationship between the hedging instrument 
and hedged item based on the currency, amount and timing of their respective cash ˚ows. The Company 
assesses whether the derivative designated in each hedging relationship is expected to be and has been 
effective in offsetting changes in the cash ˚ows of the hedged item using the hypothetical derivative 
method.
 
a.
 
Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on ˜nancial position
  
Cash ˚ow hedge - Forward exchange contracts
31st March, 2021
(
`
 in lakhs)
Type of 
hedge and 
risks
Currency
Nominal 
Value 
(Currency 
in lakhs)
Carrying amount of 
hedging instrument 
(in INR)
Line item in the 
statement of 
˜nancial position 
where the hedging 
instrument is 
included
Maturity 
date
Hedge 
ratio
Weighted 
Average 
strike 
price/ 
rate
Changes in 
fair value 
of the 
hedging 
instrument
Change in the 
value of hedged 
item used as 
the basis for 
recognising hedge 
effectiveness
Assets
Liabilities
Cash ˚ow 
hedge
Forward 
and Option 
contracts
Liabilities
Other current 
˜nancial liabilities
May-21
USD
 34.48
 4.71
1:1
 73.35
 4.71
 (4.71)
CNY
 15.62
 1.75
 11.35
 (1.75)
 1.75
Cross 
Currency 
Interest 
Rate Swap
USD
 63.42
 85.83
Other current 
˜nancial liabilities and
Other non-current 
˜nancial liabilities
March 
2023 to 
February 
2024
1:1
 85.83
 (85.83)
31st March, 2020
(
`
 in lakhs)
Type of 
hedge and 
risks
Currency
Nominal 
Value 
(Currency 
in lakhs)
Carrying amount of 
hedging instrument 
(in INR)
Line item in the 
statement of 
˜nancial position 
where the hedging 
instrument is 
included
Maturity 
date
Hedge 
ratio
Weighted 
Average 
strike 
price/ 
rate
Changes in 
fair value 
of the 
hedging 
instrument
Change in the 
value of hedged 
item used as 
the basis for 
recognising hedge 
effectiveness
Assets
Liabilities
Cash ˚ow 
hedge
Forward 
and Option 
contracts
Liabilities
Other current 
˜nancial liabilities
Apr-20
USD
 10.52
 -
 0.62
1:1
 74.74
 (0.62)
 0.62
EURO
 5.00
 0.04
 -
 10.67
 0.04
 (0.04)
Cross 
Currency 
Interest 
Rate Swap
USD
 87.68
 313.61
 -
Other current 
˜nancial liabilities and
Other non-current 
˜nancial liabilities
March 
2023 to 
February 
2024
1:1
 313.61
 (313.61)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
106
b.
Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on ˜nancial performance
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 
2021
Change in 
the value of 
the hedging 
instrument 
recognised in OCI
Hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised in 
pro˜t or loss
Amount 
reclassi˜ed 
from cash ˚ow 
hedging reserve 
to pro˜t or loss
Line item affected in 
statement of pro˜t 
or loss because of the 
reclassi˜cation
Cash ˚ow hedge
 61.44
 -
 152.76
Foreign exchange loss
31st March, 2020
Change in the 
value of the 
hedging instrument 
recognised in OCI
Hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised in 
pro˜t or loss
Amount 
reclassi˜ed 
from cash ˚ow 
hedging reserve 
to pro˜t or loss
Line item affected in 
statement of pro˜t 
or loss because of the 
reclassi˜cation
Cash ˚ow hedge
 (60.61)
 -
 92.15
 Foreign exchange loss
 
c.
  
The following table provides a reconciliation by risk category of components of equity 
and analysis of OCI items, net of tax, resulting from cash ˚ow hedge accounting
Movements in cash ˚ow hedging reserve
Balance at 1 April 2019
 (92.15)
Add : Changes in the fair value of effective portion of outstanding cash ˚ow 
derivative (net of settlement)
 (62.51)
Less : Amounts reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss
 -
Less: Deferred tax
 1.90
As at March 31, 2020
 (152.76)
Add : Changes in the fair value of effective portion of outstanding cash ˚ow 
derivative (net of settlement)
 82.11
Less : Amounts reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss
 -
Less: Deferred tax
 (20.67)
As at March 31, 2021
 (91.32)
49
 
Earnings per share (EPS)
  
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the pro˜t for the year attributable to equity holders of the 
Company by the weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year.
  
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the pro˜t attributable to equity holders of the Company 
by the weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average 
number of Equity shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential Equity shares into 
Equity shares.
 i.
Pro˜t attributable to Equity holders of Company
(
`
 in lakhs)
 31st March, 2021
 31st March, 2020
Pro˜t attributable to equity holders of the Company:
Continuing operations
 10,342.08
 12,201.15
Pro˜t attributable to equity holders of the Company 
for basic earnings
 10,342.08
 12,201.15
Pro˜t attributable to equity holders of the Company 
adjusted for the effect of dilution
 10,342.08
 12,201.15
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
107
 ii.
 Weighted average number of ordinary shares
(
`
 in lakhs)
 31st March, 2021
 31st March, 2020
Issued ordinary shares at 1st April
 1,49,22,525
 1,49,22,525
Weighted average number of shares at 31st March for 
basic and Diluted EPS
 1,49,22,525
 1,49,22,525
Basic and Diluted earnings per share
(Amount in 
`
)
 31st March, 2021
 31st March, 2020
Basic earnings per share
 69.31
 81.76
Diluted earnings per share
 69.31
 81.76
50 
 
Previous year ˜gures have been re-group / reclassi˜ed wherever necessary.
As per our report of even date attached.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Nilkamal Limited
CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Membership No : 402877
Hiten V. Parekh
Managing Director
DIN : 00037550
Manish V. Parekh
Joint Managing Director
DIN : 00037724
Paresh B. Mehta
Chief Financial Of˜cer
 
Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave
Company Secretary
Membership No : 19469
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
108
Independent Auditors™ Report
To the Members of Nilkamal Limited
Report on the Audit of Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We 
have audited the consolidated ˜nancial statements of Nilkamal Limited (hereinafter referred to as the ‚Holding 
Companyﬂ) and its subsidiaries (Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as ﬁthe Groupﬂ) and 
its joint venture, which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2021, and the consolidated 
Statement of Pro˜t and Loss (including other comprehensive income), consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity and consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated ˜nancial 
statements, including a summary of signi˜cant accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter 
referred to as ﬁthe consolidated ˜nancial statementsﬂ).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and based 
on the consideration of reports of other auditors on separate ˜nancial statements of such subsidiaries and 
joint venture as were audited by the other auditors, the aforesaid consolidated ˜nancial statements give the 
information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (ﬁActﬂ) in the manner so required and give a true and fair 
view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs 
of the Group and joint venture as at 31 March 2021, of its consolidated pro˜t and other comprehensive income, 
consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash ˚ows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) speci˜ed under section 143(10) 
of the Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in the 
Auditor™s Responsibilities for the 
Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 section of our report. We are independent of the Group, its 
associates, joint ventures and joint operations in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant 
to our audit of the consolidated ˜nancial statements in terms of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India and the relevant provisions of the Act, and we have ful˜lled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us along 
with the consideration of audit reports of the other auditors referred to in sub paragraph (a) of the ﬁOther 
Mattersﬂ paragraph below, is suf˜cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the consolidated 
˜nancial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most signi˜cance in our audit of 
the consolidated ˜nancial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our 
audit of the consolidated ˜nancial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not 
provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Description of Key Audit Matters
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
Revenue recognition
(Refer to Signi˜cant 
Accounting Policy Note 34 (o) 
and Note 26 in the consolidated 
˜nancial statements)
Revenue of the Company 
mainly comprises of sale of 
material handling products and 
plastic moulded furniture to its 
customers.
Revenue from sale of goods 
is recognised when control is 
transferred to the customers.
There is a risk of revenue 
being overstated on account of 
variation in the timing of transfer 
of control due to the pressure to 
achieve performance targets at 
the reporting period end.
Accordingly, timing of recognition 
of revenue is a key audit matter.
In view of the signi˜cance of the matter we applied the following audit 
procedures in this area, among others to obtain suf˜cient appropriate audit 
evidence
:
a.
  
Evaluating the Company™s accounting policies for revenue recognition, 
in terms of applicable accounting standards
b.
  
Testing the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the 
Company™s general IT controls and key IT/manual application controls. 
These are in respect of the Company™s systems which govern timing of 
recognition of revenue including creation of new customers in the system.
c.
  
Performing testing on selected statistical samples of customer contracts. 
Checked terms and conditions related to acceptance of goods, acknowledged 
delivery receipts and tested the transit time to deliver the goods and its 
revenue recognition. Our tests of details focused on 
substantive testing. It 
included year-end cut-off testing. We carried out audit procedures by 
selecting samples of revenue transactions recorded during the year and 
before and after the ˜nancial year end. We also selected samples of one 
off sales to customers, by verifying the underlying documents such as 
sales invoices/contracts and shipping documents.
d.
  
Performing substantive testing by verifying statistical samples of credit 
notes with underlying sales invoice and delivery documents.
e.
  
Assessing manual journal entries posted to revenue on sample basis to 
identify unusual items of revenue recorded in the current year.
Consolidated Auditors™ Report
109
Information Other than the Consolidated Financial Statements and Auditors™ Report Thereon
The Holding Company™s management and Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The 
other information comprises the information included in the holding Company™s annual report, but does not 
include the ˜nancial statements and our auditors™ report thereon.
Our opinion on the consolidated ˜nancial statements does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated ˜nancial statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the 
consolidated ˜nancial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially 
misstated. If, based on the work we have performed and based on the work done/ audit report of other auditors, 
we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. 
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Management™s and 
Board of Directors™
 Responsibilities for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
The Holding Company™s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation 
of these consolidated ˜nancial statements in term of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of 
the consolidated state of affairs, consolidated pro˜t and other comprehensive income, consolidated statement 
of changes in equity and consolidated cash ˚ows of the Group including its joint venture in accordance with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) speci˜ed 
under section 133 of the Act. The respective Management and Board of Directors of the companies included in 
the Group and of its joint venture are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of each company. and for preventing and detecting 
frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal ˜nancial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring accuracy and completeness of 
the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated ˜nancial statements 
that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which 
have been used for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated ˜nancial statements by the Management and 
Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated ˜nancial statements, the respective Management and Board of Directors of the 
companies included in the Group and of its joint venture are responsible for assessing the ability of each company 
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless the respective Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Company or 
to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its joint venture is responsible 
for overseeing the ˜nancial reporting process of each company.
Auditor™s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated ˜nancial statements as a 
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor™s report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can 
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably 
be expected to in˚uence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated ˜nancial 
statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also

to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is suf˜cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Consolidated Auditors™ Report
110

appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing 
our opinion on the internal ˜nancial controls with reference to the consolidated ˜nancial statements and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls based on our audit.

and related disclosures made by the Management and Board of Directors.

accounting in preparation of consolidated ˜nancial statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast signi˜cant doubt on the 
appropriateness of this assumption. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor™s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated ˜nancial statements or, 
if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 
obtained up to the date of our auditor™s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group 
and its joint venture to cease to continue as a going concern.

the disclosures, and whether the consolidated ˜nancial statements represent the underlying transactions 
and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

activities within the Group and its 
joint venture
 to express an opinion on the consolidated ˜nancial statements. 
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of ˜nancial information of 
such entities included in the consolidated ˜nancial statements of which we are the independent auditors. 
For the other entities included in the consolidated ˜nancial statements, which have been audited by other 
auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits 
carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. Our responsibilities in this regard 
are further described in para (a) of the section titled ‚Other Matters™ in this audit report.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us along with the consideration of audit reports of the other 
auditors referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of the Other Matters paragraph below, is suf˜cient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated ˜nancial statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included 
in the consolidated ˜nancial statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other 
matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and signi˜cant audit ˜ndings, including any signi˜cant 
de˜ciencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that 
may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most signi˜cance in the audit of the consolidated ˜nancial statements of the current period and are therefore 
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors™ report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not 
be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to 
outweigh the public interest bene˜ts of such communication.
Other Matters
(a)
  
We did not audit the ˜nancial statements of four subsidiaries, whose ˜nancial statements re˚ect total 
assets (before consolidation adjustments) of Rs. 5,964.45 lakhs as at 31 March 2021, total revenues (before 
consolidation adjustments) of Rs. 6,215.38 lakhs and net cash ˚ows amounting to Rs. 280.70 lakhs for 
the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated
 
˜nancial statements. The consolidated 
˜nancial statements also include the Group™s share of net pro˜t (and other comprehensive income) (before 
consolidation adjustments) of Rs. 160.93 lakhs for the year ended 31 March 2021, in respect of one joint 
venture, whose ˜nancial statements have not been audited by us. These ˜nancial statements have been 
audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the Management and our opinion 
on the consolidated ˜nancial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in 
respect of these subsidiaries, and 
joint venture
, and our report in terms of sub-section (3)
 
of Section 143 
of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries and joint venture is based solely on the audit 
reports of the other auditors.
Auditor™s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Annual Financial Results 
(Continued)
Consolidated Auditors™ Report
111
  
Certain of these subsidiaries
 
are located outside India whose ˜nancial statements and other ˜nancial 
information have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in their 
respective countries and which have been audited by other auditors under generally accepted auditing 
standards applicable in their respective countries. The Company™s management has converted the ˜nancial 
statements of such subsidiaries located outside India from accounting principles generally accepted in their 
respective countries to accounting principles generally accepted in India. We have audited these conversion 
adjustments made by the Company™s management. Our opinion in so far as it relates to the balances and 
affairs of such subsidiaries located outside India is based on the report of other auditors and the conversion 
adjustments prepared by the management of the Company and audited by us.
  
Our opinion on the consolidated ˜nancial statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements below, is not modi˜ed in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the 
work done and the reports of the other auditors and the ˜nancial statements/˜nancial information certi˜ed 
by the Management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.
 
(A)
  
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of reports of the 
other auditors on separate ˜nancial statements of such subsidiaries and joint venture as were audited 
by other auditors, as noted in the ‚Other Matters™ paragraph, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
  
a)
  
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated 
˜nancial statements.
  
b)
  
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
consolidated ˜nancial statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those 
books and the reports of the other auditors.
  
c)
  
The consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of pro˜t and loss (including other 
comprehensive income), the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated 
statement of cash ˚ows dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the relevant books of 
account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated ˜nancial statements.
  
d)
  
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated ˜nancial statements comply with the Ind AS speci˜ed 
under section 133 of the Act.
  
e)
  
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company 
as on 31 March 2021 taken on record by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company and the 
reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies and joint venture incorporated in India, 
none of the directors of the Group companies and joint venture incorporated in India is disquali˜ed 
as on 31 March 2021 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
  
f)
  
With respect to the adequacy of the internal ˜nancial controls with reference to ˜nancial statements 
of the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies and joint venture incorporated in India and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in ﬁAnnexure Aﬂ.
 
(B)
  
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor's Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditor™s) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of the reports of the other 
auditors on separate ˜nancial statements of the subsidiaries and joint venture, as noted in the ‚Other 
Matters™ paragraph:
  
i.
  
The consolidated ˜nancial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 
2021 on the consolidated ˜nancial position of the Group and joint venture. Refer Note 35 (a) to the 
consolidated ˜nancial statements.
  
ii.
  
The Group and its joint venture did not have any material foreseeable losses on long-term contracts 
including derivative contracts during the year ended 31 March 2021.
  
iii.
  
There has been no delay in transferring amounts to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by 
the Holding Company or its subsidiary companies and joint venture incorporated in India during the 
year ended 31 March 2021.
  
iv.
  
The disclosures in the consolidated ˜nancial statements regarding holdings as well as dealings in 
speci˜ed bank notes during the period from 8 November 2016 to 30 December 2016 have not been 
made in the ˜nancial statements since they do not pertain to the ˜nancial year ended 31 March 2021.
Other Matters 
(Continued)
Consolidated Auditors™ Report
112
 
(C)
 
With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditors™ Report under section 197(16):
   
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and based on the reports 
of the statutory auditors of such subsidiary companies and joint venture incorporated in India which 
were not audited by us, the remuneration paid during the current year by the Holding Company, its 
subsidiary companies and joint venture to its directors is in accordance with the provisions of Section 
197 of the Act. The remuneration paid to any director by the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies 
and joint venture is not in excess of the limit laid down under Section 197 of the Act. The Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs has not prescribed other details under Section 197(16) which are required to be 
commented upon by us.
 For 
B S R & Co LLP
 
Chartered Accountant
s
 
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Mumbai
 
Membership No. 402877
03 June 2021
 
 ICAI 
UDIN
: 21402877AAAADG7733
Annexure A to the Independent Auditors™ report on the consolidated ˜nancial statements of Nilkamal 
Limited for the year ended 31 March 2021
Report on the internal ˜nancial controls with reference to the aforesaid consolidated ˜nancial 
statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013
(Referred to in paragraph (2(A)(f)) under ‚Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements™ 
section of our report of even date)
Opinion
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated ˜nancial statements of the Company as of and for the year 
ended 31 March 2021, we have audited the internal ˜nancial controls with reference to consolidated ˜nancial 
statements of Nilkamal Limited (hereinafter referred to as ﬁthe Holding Companyﬂ) and such companies 
incorporated in India under the Companies Act, 2013 which are its subsidiary companies and its joint venture 
companies as of that date.
In our opinion, the Holding Company and such companies incorporated in India which are its subsidiary 
companies and joint venture companies, have, in all material respects, adequate internal ˜nancial controls with 
reference to consolidated ˜nancial statements and such internal ˜nancial controls were operating effectively as 
at 31 March 2021, based on the internal ˜nancial controls with reference to consolidated ˜nancial statements 
criteria established by such companies considering the essential components of such internal controls stated in 
the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India (the ﬁGuidance Noteﬂ).
Management™s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The respective Company™s management and the Board of Directors are responsible for establishing and 
maintaining internal ˜nancial controls with reference to consolidated ˜nancial statements based on the criteria 
established by the respective Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in 
the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal ˜nancial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and ef˜cient conduct of its 
business, including adherence to the respective company™s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention 
and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable ˜nancial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred 
to as ﬁthe Actﬂ).
Auditors™ Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal ˜nancial controls with reference to consolidated 
˜nancial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and 
the Standards on Auditing, prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of 
internal ˜nancial controls with reference to consolidated ˜nancial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
(Continued)
Consolidated Auditors™ Report
113
Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether adequate internal ˜nancial controls with reference to consolidated ˜nancial statements 
were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
˜nancial controls with reference to consolidated ˜nancial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our 
audit of internal ˜nancial controls with reference to consolidated ˜nancial statements included obtaining an 
understanding of internal ˜nancial controls with reference to consolidated ˜nancial statements, assessing 
the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of 
the internal controls based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor™s judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated ˜nancial statements, whether 
due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors of 
the relevant subsidiary companies and joint venture companies in terms of their reports referred to in the Other 
Matters paragraph below, is suf˜cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal 
˜nancial controls with reference to consolidated ˜nancial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial controls with Reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
A company™s internal ˜nancial controls with reference to consolidated ˜nancial statements is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of ˜nancial reporting and the preparation of ˜nancial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company™s 
internal ˜nancial controls with reference to consolidated ˜nancial statements includes those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly re˚ect 
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of ˜nancial statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with 
authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company™s assets that could 
have a material effect on the ˜nancial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial controls with Reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal ˜nancial controls with reference to consolidated ˜nancial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the 
internal ˜nancial controls with reference to consolidated ˜nancial statements to future periods are subject to 
the risk that the internal ˜nancial controls with reference to consolidated ˜nancial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures 
may deteriorate.
Other Matters
Our aforesaid reports under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the 
internal ˜nancial controls with reference to consolidated ˜nancial statements in so far as it relates to one 
subsidiary company and one joint venture company, which are companies incorporated in India, is based on the 
corresponding reports of the auditors of such companies incorporated in India.
 For 
B S R & Co LLP
 
Chartered Accountant
s
 
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Mumbai
 
Membership No. 402877
03 June 2021
 
 ICAI 
UDIN
: 21402877AAAADG7733
Annexure A to the Independent Auditors™ report on the consolidated ˜nancial statements of Nilkamal 
Limited for the period ended 31 March 2021 
(Continued)
Auditors™ Responsibility 
(Continued)
Annexure to Consolidated Auditors™ Report
114
(` in lakhs)
Particulars
Note
 As at 
31st March 2021
 As at 
31st March 2020
I.
ASSETS
1
Non-current Assets
(a)
Property, Plant and Equipment
1
 62,653.19
 58,424.26
(b)
Capital Work-in-Progress
 1,841.77
 2,662.48
(c)
Goodwill
42
 675.60
 675.60
(d)
Intangible assets
1
 93.51
 137.35
(e)
Investment in Joint venture
2
 1,871.43
 1,715.37
(f)
Financial Assets
(i) Investments
3
 43.14
 43.14
(ii) Loans
4
 2,284.08
 2,505.52
(iii) Others Financial Assets
5
 385.55
 406.42
(f)
Other Non-current Assets
6
 2,653.48
 2,537.31
 Total Non-current Assets
 72,501.75
 69,107.45
2
Current Assets
(a)
Inventories
7
 49,795.89
 40,634.73
(b)
Financial Assets
(i) Investments
8
 1,571.76
 1,667.80
(ii) Trade Receivables
9
 30,809.18
 32,500.58
(iii) Cash and Cash Equivalents
10
 3,108.16
 1,841.44
(iv) Bank Balances other than cash and cash equivalents
11
 5,944.78
 561.34
(v) Loans
12
 797.23
 1,216.78
(vi) Other Financial Assets
13
 1,738.08
 1,351.80
(c)
 Current Tax Assets (Net)
 634.25
 918.37
(d)
 Other Current Assets
14
 5,478.99
 5,292.68
 Total Current Assets
 99,878.32
 85,985.52
 Total Assets
 1,72,380.07
 1,55,092.97
II.
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1
Equity
(a)
Equity Share Capital
15
 1,492.25
 1,492.25
(b)
Other Equity
16
 1,12,445.25
 1,01,716.88
Total Equity attributable to Equity Owners of the Company
 1,13,937.50
 1,03,209.13
2
Non-controlling Interests
 104.43
 90.47
Total Equity
 1,14,041.93
 1,03,299.60
3
Non-current liabilities
(a)
Financial Liabilities
(i) Borrowings
17
 2,854.05
 4,790.08
(ii) Other Financial Liabilities
18
 21,828.66
 18,328.61
(b)
Provisions
19
 657.18
 710.06
(c)
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net)
20
 1,273.05
 1,343.65
 Total Non-current Liabilities
 26,612.94
 25,172.40
4
Current Liabilities
(a)
Financial Liabilities
(i) Borrowings
21
 218.26
 1.73
(ii) Trade Payables
22
 (a)  
 
Total Outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 13.78
 3.64
 (b) 
 
Total Outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 19,243.64
 15,299.31
(iii) Other Financial Liabilities
23
 6,608.28
 7,066.29
(b)
Other Current Liabilities
24
 4,471.40
 3,136.15
(c)
Provisions
25
 1,121.01
 1,086.00
(d)
Current Tax Liabilities (Net)
 48.84
 27.85
 Total Current Liabilities
 31,725.21
 26,620.97
 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITITES
 1,72,380.07
 1,55,092.97
Signi˜cant accounting policies
34
The notes referred to above form an integral part of the consolidated ˜nancial statements.
CONSOLIDATED  BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31
ST
 MARCH, 2021
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As per our report of even date attached.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Nilkamal Limited
CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Membership No : 402877
Hiten V. Parekh
Managing Director
DIN : 00037550
Manish V. Parekh
Joint Managing Director
DIN : 00037724
Paresh B. Mehta
Chief Financial Of˜cer
 
Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave
Company Secretary
Membership No : 19469
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
115
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31
ST
 MARCH, 2021
(` in lakhs)
Particulars
Note
 Year Ended 
31st March 2021
 Year Ended 
31st March 2020
I.
Revenue from operations
26
 2,09,220.16
 2,25,719.18
II.
Other Income
27
 1,602.27
 1,441.89
III.
Total Income (I+II)
 2,10,822.43
 2,27,161.07
IV.
Expenses:
Cost of Materials Consumed
 77,937.49
 75,086.94
Purchases of Stock in Trade
 41,832.90
 50,031.66
Changes in inventories of Finished Goods, Stock in Trade and Work-
in-Progress
28
 (2,050.08)
 (413.49)
Employee Bene˜ts Expenses
29
 17,386.91
 19,068.74
Finance Costs
30
 2,353.38
 2,610.47
Depreciation and Amortisation Expenses
1
 9,716.47
 9,421.27
Other Expenses
31
 48,798.72
 53,825.94
Total Expenses
 1,95,975.79
 2,09,631.53
V.
Pro˜t Before share of Pro˜t of Equity accounted Investee 
and Income Tax (III - IV)
 14,846.64
 17,529.54
VI.
Shares of Pro˜t in Joint Ventures (net of Tax)
 165.69
 628.07
VII.
Pro˜t before Tax (V + VI)
 15,012.33
 18,157.61
VIII.
Income Tax Expense:
 Current tax
32
 3,895.14
 4,460.77
 Deferred tax (Credit) / Charge
33
 (197.58)
 (545.91)
Total Tax Expenses
 3,697.56
 3,914.86
IX.
Pro˜t for the year (VII - VIII)
 11,314.77
 14,242.75
X.
Other Comprehensive Income:
Items that will not be reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss
Remeasurements of de˜ned bene˜t (asset)
 433.21
 (122.92)
Income Tax effect on above
 (109.03)
 24.17
Items that will be reclassi˜ed subsequently to pro˜t or loss
Effective portion of (losses) on hedging instrument in a cash ˚ow hedge
 82.11
 (62.51)
Income tax Effect on Above
 (20.67)
 1.90
Exchange Differences in translation of foreign subsidiaries
 (205.31)
 47.45
Share of Other Comprehensive income in Joint Venture
 0.87
 (5.13)
Total Other Comprehensive Income for the year, Net of Income Tax
 181.18
 (117.04)
XI.
Total Comprehensive Income (IX + X)
 11,495.95
 14,125.71
Pro˜t for the year attributable to :
Equity Shareholder of the Company
 11,293.31
 14,208.45
Non-Controlling Interests
 21.46
 34.30
Other Comprehensive income (net of tax) attributable to:
-
-
Equity Shareholder of the Company
 181.18
 (117.04)
Non-Controlling Interests
-
-
Total Comprehensive income attributable to:
Equity Shareholder of the Company
 11,474.49
 14,091.41
Non-Controlling Interests
 21.46
 34.30
XII.
Earnings per equity share of 
` 
10 each (Previous Year 
` 
10 each)
49
(1) Basic (in 
` 
)
 75.68
 95.21
(2) Diluted (in 
` 
)
 75.68
 95.21
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding
 1,49,22,525
 1,49,22,525
Signi˜cant accounting policies
34
The notes referred in above form an integral part of the Consolidated ˜nancial statements.
Consolidated Statement of Pro˜t and Loss
As per our report of even date attached.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Nilkamal Limited
CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Membership No : 402877
Hiten V. Parekh
Managing Director
DIN : 00037550
Manish V. Parekh
Joint Managing Director
DIN : 00037724
Paresh B. Mehta
Chief Financial Of˜cer
 
Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave
Company Secretary
Membership No : 19469
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
116
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED ENDED 31
ST
 MARCH 2021 
 (` in lakhs)
 
 Year ended on
31st March 2021
Year ended on
31st March, 2020
A.
 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net Pro˜t before tax
 14,846.64
 17,529.54
Adjustments for :
Depreciation and Amortisation
 9,716.47
 9,421.27
Forex (Pro˜t)/Loss on Forward Contract
 (0.32)
 (34.91)
Loss on Fixed Assets sold / discarded (Net)
 (21.50)
 (287.51)
Non-cash expenses adjustment for Gratuity
 433.21
 (128.05)
Finance Costs
 2,353.38
 2,610.47
Interest Income
 (1,088.60)
 (386.55)
Gain on Cancellation of Lease
 (450.97)
 (36.16)
Provision for Rent Equalisation
 -
 (52.93)
Provision for doubtful debts and advances
 179.85
 186.96
Bad Debts Written off
 135.90
 218.17
Dividend Income on Equity Securities
 -
 (42.00)
Pro˜t on valuation of Investment
 (1.54)
 (704.31)
Unrealised Foreign Exchange Loss
 (12.69)
 26.94
 11,243.19
 10,791.39
Operating Pro˜t before Working Capital changes
 26,089.83
 28,320.93
Adjustments for :
Increase in Trade Receivables
 1,387.51
 1,737.46
(Increase) / Decrease in Other Receivables
 (66.73)
 2,024.98
(Increase) in Inventories
 (9,161.16)
 (870.58)
Increase / (Decrease) in Trade Payables
 3,955.29
 14.10
Increase / (Decrease) in Other Payables & Provisions
 1,476.28
 (999.42)
 (2,408.81)
 1,906.54
Direct Taxes Paid (Net of Refund)
 (3,384.87)
 (5,032.53)
 3,384.87
 (5,032.53)
Net Cash In˚ow from Operating Activities (A)
 20,296.15
 25,194.94
B.
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Addition to Fixed Assets, Capital Work-in-Progress and Capital 
Advances
 (7,758.93)
 (10,052.10)
Sale of Fixed Assets
 360.96
 808.51
Dividend received from JV
 -
 33.37
Investment in Mutual Fund
 (1,000.05)
 (15,750.00)
Redemption in Mutual fund
 1,514.84
 14,461.35
Amount received towards Govt. Grant
 154.22
 97.78
Investments in Subsidiary Company
 -
 (5,097.10)
Investment in Fixed deposits
 (6,023.03)
 (216.39)
Investments in Joint Venture
 (156.06)
 -
Share of pro˜t from Joint Venture
 -
 224.00
Interest Received
 819.21
 253.30
Net Cash Out˚ow from Investing Activities (B)
 (12,088.84)
 (15,237.27)
C.
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Receipt of Long term Borrowings
 -
 1,738.75
(Repayment) of Long term Borrowings
 (1,691.36)
 (855.14)
Increase/ (Decrease) in Short Term borrowings (Net)
 216.53
 (699.76)
Finance Costs
 (1,093.48)
 (1,232.34)
Principle Amount paid towards Lease Liability
 (2,467.43)
 (2,796.78)
Interest paid towards Lease Liability
 (1,278.19)
 (1,360.34)
Buyback of Shares in Subsidiary Company
 -
 (505.13)
Dividend paid (including tax on dividend)
 (746.13)
 (4,259.78)
Net Cash In˚ow/(Out˚ow) from Financing Activities (C)
 (7,060.06)
 (9,970.52)
D.
Change In Foreign Currency Fluctuation Reserve Arising 
On Consolidation (D)
 119.47
 (38.31)
Net Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents (A+B+C+D )
 1,266.72
 (51.17)
Cash and Cash Equivalents as at the beginning of the year
 1,841.44
 1,316.65
Increase in Cash and cash equivalents pursuant to the balance 
50% acquisition stake in Subsidiary Company
 -
 575.96
Cash and Cash Equivalents as at the year end
 3,108.16
 1,841.44
Net Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents
 1,266.72
 (51.17)
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED ENDED 31
ST
 MARCH 2021 (CONTD.)
 (` in lakhs)
 
 Year ended on
31st March 2021
Year ended on
31st March, 2020
1.
 Components of cash and cash equivalents
(a) Cash on Hand
 73.60
 67.09
(b) Cheques on Hand / Remittance in Transit
 50.26
 136.10
(c) Balance in Current Accounts
 1,869.07
 1,251.23
(d) Bank Deposits with less than 3 months
 1,115.23
 387.02
 Cash and cash Equivalents
 3,108.16
 1,841.44
2.
Debt reconciliation statement in accordance with Ind AS 7
 Opening balances
 Long-term borrowing including derivative liability (Refer Note 17)
 4,790.08
 4,441.81
 Current Maturity of Long term Borrowings
 1,844.52
 744.81
 Short-term borrowing (Refer Note 21)
 1.73
 701.49
 6,636.33
 5,888.11
 Movements
 Long-term borrowing
 (1,691.36)
 883.61
 Exchange loss / (gain) on restatement of long term borrowings
 (306.67)
 564.37
 Short-term borrowing
 216.53
 (699.76)
 (1,781.50)
 748.22
Closing balances
Long-term borrowing including derivative liability (Refer Note 17)
 2,854.05
 4,790.08
Current Maturity of Long term Borrowings (Refer Note 23)
 1,782.52
 1,844.52
Short-term borrowing (Refer Note 21)
 218.26
 1.73
 4,854.83
 6,636.33
 3
The Cash Flow statement has been prepared under the "Indirect Method" as set out in Accounting Standard (Ind As -7) 
Statement of Cash Flows.
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
As per our report of even date attached.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Nilkamal Limited
CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Membership No : 402877
Hiten V. Parekh
Managing Director
DIN : 00037550
Manish V. Parekh
Joint Managing Director
DIN : 00037724
Paresh B. Mehta
Chief Financial Of˜cer
 
Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave
Company Secretary
Membership No : 19469
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
118
Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2021
(a)  Equity share capital
(
 `
 in lakhs)
 As at 31st March, 2021
 As at 31st March, 2020
 No. of Shares
 Amount
 No. of Shares
 Amount
Balance at the beginning of the reporting period
 1,49,22,525
 1,492.25
 1,49,22,525
 1,492.25
Changes in equity share capital during the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
Balance at the end of the reporting period
 1,49,22,525
 1,492.25
 1,49,22,525
 1,492.25
(b) Other Equity
 (
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
 Reserves and Surplus
 Other Reserve
 Attributable 
to Equity 
Shareholders 
of the 
Company
 Attributable 
to Non 
Controlling 
Interests
 Total
 Retained 
Earnings
 Securities 
Premium
 General 
Reserve
 Share 
of Pro˜t 
in Joint 
Venture
 Foreign 
Currency 
Translation 
Reserves
 Effective 
portion of cash 
˚ow hedges
Balance at April 1, 2019
 51,139.76
 6,448.96
 35,032.04
 418.24
 (321.07)
 (92.15)
 92,625.78
723.36
 93,349.14
Pro˜t for the year
 14,208.45
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 14,208.45
 34.30
 14,242.75
Other comprehensive income for the year
 (103.85)
 (60.61)
 (164.46)
 -
 (164.46)
Transition impact of INDAS 116
 (872.87)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (872.87)
 -
 (872.87)
Share of Joint Venture of Transition impact of INDAS 116
 (10.98)
-
-
-
-
-
 (10.98)
-
 (10.98)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 13,220.75
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (60.61)
 13,160.14
 34.30
 13,194.44
Final Dividend declared and paid
 (1,343.03)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (1,343.03)
 (9.20)
 (1,352.23)
Interim dividend declared and paid
 (2,238.37)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (2,238.37)
 (13.10)
 (2,251.47)
DDT on Final Dividend / Interim Dividend
 (663.87)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (663.87)
 -
 (663.87)
Adjustment relates to opening reserve of Nilkamal Foundation and Nilkamal 
Storage System Private Limited (Previously known as Nilkamal Bito Storage 
System Private Limited).
 55.00
 -
 -
 (52.29)
 -
 -
 2.71
 -
 2.71
Buyback of a Non-controlling Interest (NCI)
-
-
-
-
-
-
 -
 (505.13)
 (505.13)
Gain on Reduction of Non-controlling interest on account of Buy back of shares
 126.07
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 126.07
 (126.07)
 -
Foreign Currency Monetary Item Translation Difference Account
-
-
-
-
 47.45
 -
 47.45
 (13.69)
 33.76
Balance at March 31, 2020
60,296.31
 6,448.96
35,032.04
 365.95
 (273.62)
 (152.76)
 1,01,716.88
 90.47
1,01,807.35
Pro˜t for the year
11,293.31
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 11,293.31
 21.46
 11,314.77
Other comprehensive income for the year
 325.05
 -
 -
 -
 -
 61.45
 386.50
 -
 386.50
Total comprehensive income for the year
11,618.36
 -
 -
 -
 -
 61.45
 11,679.81
 21.46
 11,701.27
Interim dividend declared and paid
 (746.13)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (746.13)
 -
 (746.13)
Foreign Currency Monetary Item Translation Difference Account
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (205.31)
 -
 (205.31)
 (7.50)
 (212.81)
Balance at March 31, 2021
71,168.54
 6,448.96
35,032.04
 365.95
 (478.93)
 (91.31)
 1,12,445.25
 104.43
1,12,549.68
Statement of Changes in Equity
As per our report of even date attached.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Nilkamal Limited
CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Membership No : 402877
Hiten V. Parekh
Managing Director
DIN : 00037550
Manish V. Parekh
Joint Managing Director
DIN : 00037724
Paresh B. Mehta
Chief Financial Of˜cer
 
Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave
Company Secretary
Membership No : 19469
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
119
As per our report of even date attached.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Nilkamal Limited
CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Membership No : 402877
Hiten V. Parekh
Managing Director
DIN : 00037550
Manish V. Parekh
Joint Managing Director
DIN : 00037724
Paresh B. Mehta
Chief Financial Of˜cer
 
Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave
Company Secretary
Membership No : 19469
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
1 Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Particulars
 Property, Plant and Equipment
 Intangible 
Assets
 TOTAL
Freehold
 Land
Leasehold 
Land
 uildings
 Plant and 
Equipments
Furniture 
and 
Fixtures
 Of˜ce 
Equipments
Vehicle
 Leasehold 
Improvements
 Lease 
Equipments
 Right of Use 
(See note f 
below)
 Total
 Software
Gross Block
Balance as at 1st April, 2019
 1,233.14
 167.27
 14,651.47
 34,985.43
 3,819.43
 2,061.46
 497.13
 1,605.76
 20.95
 -
 59,042.04
 425.05
 59,467.09
Additions On account of Transition to Ind As 116 - 1st 
April 2019
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 14,940.15
 14,940.15
 -
 14,940.15
Addition on Acquisition of Additional stake in Nilkamal 
Storage Systems Private Limited on 23rd August 2019 
(Refer note 42)
 252.00
 1,115.19
 1,628.60
 10.00
 12.00
 12.29
 -
 122.23
 3,152.31
 -
 3,152.31
Addition during the year
 -
 -
 2,251.11
 5,493.98
 359.98
 415.12
 7.43
 39.30
 -
 1,965.51
 10,532.43
 118.16
 10,650.59
Adjustments
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 350.04
 350.04
 -
 350.04
Disposal
 13.52
 -
 245.18
 684.59
 57.59
 80.42
 74.49
 84.77
 -
 247.59
 1,488.15
 -
 1,488.15
Exchange Translation
 0.42
 -
 2.71
 5.20
 2.84
 1.30
 8.73
 -
 -
 -
 21.20
 0.17
 21.37
Balance as at 31st March, 2020
 1,220.04
 419.27
 17,775.30
 41,428.62
 4,134.66
 2,409.46
 451.09
 1,560.29
 20.95
 17,130.34
 86,550.02
 543.38
 87,093.40
Balance as at 1st April, 2020
 1,220.04
 419.27
17,775.30
 41,428.62
 4,134.66
 2,409.46
 451.09
 1,560.29
 20.95
 17,130.34
 86,550.02
 543.38
 87,093.40
Addition during the year
 -
 -
 371.55
 6,760.45
 383.20
 263.39
 59.39
 46.27
 670.89
 8,640.74
 17,195.88
 35.54
 17,231.42
Adjustments
 -
 -
 -
 17.33
 0.02
 (16.94)
 -
 -
 (0.41)
 -
 -
 -
 -
Disposal
 -
 -
 66.01
 324.48
 176.87
 167.26
 26.72
 96.08
 -
 3,732.99
 4,590.41
 -
 4,590.41
Exchange Translation
 (7.63)
 -
 (50.24)
 (96.52)
 (1.91)
 (3.03)
(11.87)
 -
 -
 -
 (171.20)
 (3.13)
 (174.33)
Balance as at 31st March, 2021
 1,212.41
 419.27
18,030.60
 47,785.40
 4,339.10
 2,485.61
 471.89
 1,510.48
 691.43
 22,038.09
 98,984.29
 575.79
 99,560.08
Amortisation:
Balance as at 1st April, 2019
 -
 9.04
 2,054.59
 12,816.73
 1,817.24
 1,373.25
 199.19
 1,021.95
 7.70
 -
 19,299.69
 314.15
 19,613.84
Amortisation for the year
 -
 2.18
 657.58
 4,416.76
 379.11
 330.01
 58.18
 128.73
 3.81
 3,353.16
 9,329.52
 91.75
 9,421.27
Adjustments
-
 -
 -
 (40.25)
 0.07
 (6.01)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (46.19)
 -
 (46.19)
Disposal /Adjustments
 -
 -
 18.20
 242.67
 32.66
 47.13
 44.78
 40.56
 -
 40.98
 466.98
 -
 466.98
Exchange Translation
 -
 -
 0.50
 1.95
 1.13
 1.06
 5.08
 -
 -
 -
 9.72
 0.13
 9.85
Balance as at 31st March, 2020
 -
 11.22
 2,694.47
 16,952.52
 2,164.89
 1,651.18
 217.67
 1,110.12
 11.51
 3,312.18
 28,125.76
 406.03
 28,531.79
Balance as at 1st April, 2020
 -
 11.22
 2,694.47
 16,952.52
 2,164.89
 1,651.18
 217.67
 1,110.12
 11.51
 3,312.18
 28,125.76
 406.03
 28,531.79
Amortisation for the year
 -
 2.98
 763.93
 4,542.92
 398.79
 323.37
 38.71
 127.36
 32.70
 3,406.37
 9,637.13
 79.34
 9,716.47
Adjustment
 -
 -
 -
 16.25
 0.02
 (7.46)
 -
 -
 (8.81)
 -
 (0.00)
 -
 (0.00)
 Disposal /Adjustments
 -
 -
 6.90
 110.71
 159.03
 115.36
 15.75
 77.22
 -
 881.10
 1,366.07
 -
 1,366.07
 Exchange Translation
 -
 -
 (11.35)
 (46.39)
 (0.70)
 (2.37)
 (4.92)
 -
 -
 -
 (65.73)
 (3.09)
 (68.82)
Balance as at 31st March, 2021
 -
 14.20
 3,440.15
 21,354.59
 2,403.97
 1,849.36
 235.71
 1,160.26
 35.40
 5,837.45
 36,331.09
 482.28
 36,813.37
NET BOOK VALUE
As at 31st March 2021
 1,212.41
 405.07
14,590.45
 26,430.81
 1,935.13
 636.25
 236.18
 350.22
 656.03
 16,200.64
 62,653.19
 93.51
 62,746.70
As at 31st March 2020
 1,220.04
 408.05
 15,080.83
 24,476.10
 1,969.77
 758.28
 233.42
 450.17
 9.44
 13,818.16
 58,424.26
 137.35
 58,561.61
Notes:-
a)
  
Leasehold Land acquisition value includes
 
`
 0.01 lakhs (previous year :
 
`
 0.01 lakhs) paid by way of subscription of shares for membership of co-operative housing society.
b)
  
Pending completion of the relevant formalities of the ˜xed assets having Gross block value 
`
 225.34 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 228.00 lakhs) and Net block value 
`
 198.64 lakhs (Previous 
year 
`
 205.54 lakhs) which vested in the name of Company pursuant to the scheme of amalgamation, such assets continue to be in the 
name of the erstwhile amalgamated 
companies.
c)
  
Government grant of 
`
 252.01 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 Nil) related to property plant and equipment recognised as deduction from carrying amount of related plant and equipments.
d)
  
For capital commitment with regards to property plant and equipment refer note 35 (b).
e)
 
For Assets on hypothecation as security against borrowing refer note 38
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
120
f)
Details of Right of Use
(
`
 in lakhs)
Land & 
Building
Computer 
Server
Vehicles
Total
Gross Block :
Balance as at 1st April, 2019
 -
 -
 -
 -
Additions On account of Transition to Ind As 116 
-1st April 2019
 14,027.14
 399.55
 513.45
 14,940.14
Addition on Acquisition of Additional Stake of 
Nilkamal Storage Systems Private Limited on 23rd 
August, 2020 (refer note 43)
 119.03
 -
 3.20
 122.23
Additions
 1,815.78
 -
 149.74
 1,965.52
Adjustments *
 350.04
 -
 -
 350.04
Disposals
 247.59
 247.59
Balance as at 31st March, 2020
 16,064.40
 399.55
 666.39
 17,130.34
Balance as at 1st April, 2020
 16,064.40
 399.55
 666.39
 17,130.34
Additions
 8,556.38
 -
 84.36
 8,640.74
Disposals
 3,717.27
 -
 15.72
 3,732.99
Balance as at 31st March, 2021
 20,903.51
 399.55
 735.03
 22,038.09
Amortisation
Balance as at 1st April, 2019
 -
 -
 -
 -
Amortisation for the year
 2,998.68
 123.64
 230.84
 3,353.16
Disposals / Adjustments
 40.98
 -
 -
 40.98
Balance as at 31st March, 2020
 2,957.70
 123.64
 230.84
 3,312.18
Balance as at 1st April, 2020
 2,957.70
 123.64
 230.84
 3,312.18
Amortisation for the year
3076.58
161.96
167.83
 3,406.37
Disposals / Adjustments
871.31
0.00
9.79
 881.10
Balance as at 31st March, 2021
 5,162.97
 285.60
 388.88
 5,837.45
Net Block :
As at 31st March, 2021
 15,740.54
 113.95
 346.15
 16,200.64
As at 31st March, 2020
 13,106.70
 275.91
 435.55
 13,818.16
   
* In accordance with Ind As 116 prepaid lease rental is regrouped from Other Non current asset to right 
of Use asset amounting to 
` 
350.04 lakhs.
 
  
Notes :-
  
a)
  
The Group has adopted Ind AS 116 effective 1st April, 2019, using the modi˜ed retrospective method. 
The Group has applied the standard to its leases with the cumulative impact recognised on the date 
of initial application (1st April, 2019). Accordingly, previous period information has not been restated.
    
In the statement of pro˜t and loss for the current year, operating lease expenses which were recognised 
as other expenses in previous periods is now recognised as depreciation expense for the right-of-use 
asset and ˜nance cost for interest accrued on lease liability. The adoption of this standard did not 
have any signi˜cant impact on the pro˜t for the year and earnings per share. The weighted average 
incremental borrowing rate of 8.5% has been applied to lease liabilities recognised in the balance 
sheet at the date of initial application.
  
b)
 
 

The Group incurred  
`
 1,075.12 lakhs for the year ended 31st March, 2021 (Previous year 
`
 1,406.71 
lakhs) towards expenses relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. The total 
cash out˚ow for leases is 
`
 4,913.30 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 5,563.83 lakhs) for the year ended 
 
31st March, 2021, including cash out˚ow of short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. Interest 
on lease liabilities is 
`
 1,278.19 lakhs (Previous year  
`
 1,360.34 lakhs) for the year.
  
c)
  
The Group™s leases mainly comprise of land and buildings and Plant and equipment. The Group leases 
land and buildings for manufacturing and warehouse facilities. The Group also has leases for equipment.
  
d)
 
Maturity analysis Undiscounted Contractual Future lease Out˚ow are as follows.
(
`
 in lakhs)
Period
2020-21
2019-20
Within One year
 3,966.66
 4,446.02
One to Five year
 10,331.73
 12,182.35
More than Five years
 17,584.52
 4,303.11
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
121
(
`
 in lakhs)
As at 
 
31st March, 2021
As at 
 
31st March, 2020
2
Investments in Joint Venture
(Valued at cost unless stated otherwise)
Trade Investment (Unquoted)
(I)
Investment in Equity instruments of Joint Ventures
 (i) 
 
 
 
105,000 (Previous year - 105,000) Equity Shares of 
`
 10 
each of Cambro Nilkamal Private Limited, fully paid up
 200.50
 200.50
Add : Shares of Pro˜t in Joint Ventures
 1,670.93
 1,514.87
Total
 1,871.43
 1,715.37
Aggregate amount of unquoted other investments
 1,871.43
 1,715.37
3
Other Non-Current investments
Unquoted
(a)
Investment - Others (measured through fair value 
through pro˜t and loss)
 225,370 (Previous year - 225,370) Equity Shares of 
`
 10 each 
of Beta Wind Farm Private Limited fully paid up
 42.82
 42.82
(b)
Investment in Government Securities (measured 
through amortised cost)
 National Savings Certi˜cates (Pledged with Government 
authorities)
 0.32
 0.32
Total
 43.14
 43.14
Aggregate amount of unquoted other investments
 43.14
 43.14
4
Non-Current Loans
(a)
Secured, Considered good
-
-
(b)
Unsecured, Considered good
 (i) Employee Loans
 262.59
 342.84
 (ii) Security Deposit
 (i) With Other than related parties
 1,301.49
 1,442.68
 (ii) With related parties (Refer Note 41)
 720.00
 720.00
(c)
With signi˜cant increase in credit risk
(d)
Credit impaired
Total
 2,284.08
 2,505.52
5
Other Non-Current Financial Assets
Unsecured, Considered good
(a)
Bank Deposits with more than 12 months maturity
 296.76
 93.39
(b)
Derivative Assets (Net)
 88.79
 313.03
Total
 385.55
 406.42
6
Other Non-Current assets
Unsecured, Considered good
To parties other than related parties :
(a)
Capital Advances
 1,698.84
 1,435.48
(b)
Deposit with Government Authorities
 954.64
 1,101.83
Total
 2,653.48
 2,537.31
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
122
(
`
 in lakhs)
As at 
 
31st March, 2021
As at 
 
31st March, 2020
7
Inventories
(Valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value)
(a)
Raw Material (including Goods in Transit 
` 
798.91 lakhs 
(Previous year 
` 
483.11 lakhs)
 14,108.80
 7,654.84
(b)
Work in Progress
 4,142.02
 3,231.70
(c)
Finished Goods
 12,208.39
 10,794.72
(d)
Stock in Trade (including Goods in Transit
 
`
 888.22 lakhs 
(Previous year 
`
 695.39 lakhs)
 16,380.20
 16,654.08
(e)
Stores and Spares
 2,446.74
 1,962.59
(f)
Packing Material
 509.74
 336.80
Total
 49,795.89
 40,634.73
During the year an amount of 
` 
316.05 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 362.60 lakhs) was charges to the statement 
of Pro˜t and loss on account of damage and Slow Moving Inventory.
For inventories on hypothecation as security against borrowing Refer Note 38.
8
Current Investments
Investment in Mutual Funds (Refer Note 45)
Non Traded (Unquoted)
(a)
Sri Lankan Government Treasury Investment
 571.71
 154.50
Quoted
Fair value through Pro˜t and Loss
(a)
Nil (Previous year 34,468.791 units) Kotak Liquid Fund-
Growth Scheme
 -
 1,383.88
(b)
Nil (Previous Year 44,051.544 units) ICICI Prudential Liquid 
Fund-Growth Scheme
 -
 129.42
(c)
50,455.278 units (Previous year Nil) of Union Liquid Fund-
Growth Scheme
 1,000.05
 -
Total
 1,571.76
 1,667.80
Aggregate value of non quoted investments
 571.71
 154.50
Aggregate value of quoted investments
 1,000.00
 1,503.36
Market value of quoted investments
 1,000.05
 1,513.30
9
Trade Receivables
(a)
 Considered good - Secured
 3,676.38
 4,067.18
(b)
 Considered good - Unsecured
 27,132.80
 28,433.40
(c)
 With signi˜cant increase in credit risk
 -
 -
(d)
 Credit impaired
 1,337.92
 1,173.61
 Less: Provision for Loss allowance (Refer Note 45)
 (1,337.92)
 (1,173.61)
Total
 30,809.18
 32,500.58
For Trade receivable on hypothecation as security against borrowing (Refer Note 38)
Trade receivables (unsecured considered good) included 
` 
250.55 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 315.55 lakhs) due 
from joint venture companies (Refer Note 41)
10
Cash and Cash Equivalents
(a)
Cash on Hand
 73.60
 67.09
(b)
Cheques on Hand
 50.26
 136.10
(c)
Balance with banks in Current Accounts
 1,869.07
 1,251.23
(d)
Bank Deposits with less than 3 months maturity
 1,115.23
 387.02
Total
 3,108.16
 1,841.44
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
123
(
`
 in lakhs)
As at 
 
31st March, 2021
As at 
 
31st March, 2020
11
Bank Balances other than Cash and Cash Equivalents
(a)
Bank Deposits with 3 to 12 months maturity
 5,883.85
 481.40
(b)
Earmarked Balance with Banks (Unclaimed Dividend)
 60.93
 79.94
Total
 5,944.78
 561.34
12
Current Loans
(a)
Secured, Considered good
 -
 -
(b)
Unsecured, Considered good
 -
 -
To parties other than related parties :
Security Deposit
 797.23
 1,216.78
(c)
With signi˜cant increase in Credit Risk
 -
 -
(d)
Credit impaired
Security Deposits Considered Doubtful
 52.05
 53.05
Less: Provision for Loss Allowance
 (52.05)
 (53.05)
Total
 797.23
 1,216.78
13
Other Current Financial Assets
(a)
Interest Receivable
 7.20
 8.58
(b)
Due from Related Parties (Refer Note 41)
 0.18
 0.82
(c)
Discount Receivable
 1,725.71
 1,277.72
(d)
Other Receivable
 4.99
 64.68
Total
 1,738.08
 1,351.80
14
Other Current Assets
 To parties other than related parties
(a)
Advances to Vendors
 1,670.87
 1,669.59
(b)
Advances for Expenses
 173.68
 175.43
(c)
Balance with authorities
 2,462.07
 2,549.85
(d)
Prepaid Expenses
 619.24
 434.69
(e)
Staff Loans
 24.00
 29.82
(f)
Other than Related Parties
 0.49
 420.14
(g)
Deposit
 205.91
 13.16
(h)
Prepaid Gratuity
 322.73
 -
Total
 5,478.99
 5,292.68
15
Equity Share Capital
Authorised
22,000,000 (Previous year - 22,000,000) Equity Shares of 
`
 10 each
 2,200.00
 2,200.00
3,000,000 (Previous year - 3,000,000) Preference Shares of 
`
 10 each
 300.00
 300.00
Total
 2,500.00
 2,500.00
Issued, Subscribed and Fully Paid up
14,922,525 Equity Shares of 
`
 10 each (Previous year - 
14,922,525 Equity Shares of 
` 
10 each) (Refer Note 37)
 1,492.25
 1,492.25
Total
 1,492.25
 1,492.25
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
124
(
`
 in lakhs)
As at 
 
31st March, 2021
As at 
 
31st March, 2020
16
Other Equities
a.
Surplus (Pro˜t and Loss)
At the Commencement of the year
 60,296.31
 51,139.76
Less: Transition impact of INDAS 116
 -
 (872.87)
Less: Share of Joint Venture transition impact of INDAS 116
 (10.98)
Add: Net Pro˜t for the year
 11,293.31
 14,208.45
Add : Other Comprehensive Income for the year
 324.18
 (98.72)
Add : Other Comprehensive Income of Joint Venture
 0.87
 (5.13)
Add: Adjustment of Previous Year *
 -
 55.00
Add : Gain on Reduction of non-controlling interest on 
account of Buy back of shares
 -
 126.07
Less: Appropriations
Final Dividend 31st March, 2020 
`
 Nil per share (31st March 
2019 
`
 9 per share)
 -
 1,343.03
Interim Dividend
 746.13
 2,238.37
Tax on Final Dividend / Interim Dividend
 -
 663.87
Transfer to General Reserve
 -
 -
 71,168.54
 60,296.31
* Adjustment relates to opening reserve of Nilkamal Foundation and Nilkamal Storage System 
Private Limited (Previously known as Nilkamal Bito Storage System Private Limited)
b.
Securities Premium
At the Commencement and at the end of the year
 6,448.96
 6,448.96
c.
General Reserve
At the Commencement of the year
 35,032.04
 35,032.04
Add: Transferred from Surplus
At the end of the year
 35,032.04
 35,032.04
d.
Exchange Differences in translation of foreign 
operations
At the Commencement of the year
 (273.62)
 (321.07)
Add/(Less): Exchange Difference during the year
 (205.31)
 47.45
At the end of the year
 (478.93)
 (273.62)
e.
Share of Joint Venture
At the Commencement of the year
 365.95
 418.24
Less: Share of joint venture transfer to retain earning on 
acquisition of 50% stake in Nilkamal Storage system private 
limited
 -
 (52.29)
At the end of the year
 365.95
 365.95
f.
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
At the commencement of the year
 (152.76)
 (92.15)
Add : Net gain / (loss) recognised on Cash Flow Hedge (Refer 
Note 48)
 61.45
 (60.61)
At the end of the year
 (91.31)
 (152.76)
Total Other Equity
 1,12,445.25
 1,01,716.88
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
125
(
`
 in lakhs)
As at 
 
31st March, 2021
As at 
 
31st March, 2020
17
Borrowings - Non-current Financial Liabilities
Secured Loan (For Security and terms of repayment : 
Refer Note 39)
Foreign Currency Loan
 2,854.05
 4,790.08
Total
 2,854.05
 4,790.08
* Current maturities of Long Term Borrowings disclosed under 
Other Current Liabilities: Refer Note 23)
 * 1,782.52
 * 1,844.52
18
Other Non-current Financial Liabilities
Security Deposit Received
 6,231.12
 5,925.01
Lease liabilities
 15,597.54
 12,403.60
Total
 21,828.66
 18,328.61
19
Non-current Provisions
Provision For Employee Bene˜ts
(a)
Gratuity (Refer Note 47)
 213.69
 195.31
(b)
Compensated Absences
 443.49
 514.75
Total
 657.18
 710.06
20
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) (Refer Note 33)
Major components of deferred tax assets and liabilities on 
account of timing differences are:
Deferred Tax Liabilities :
Depreciation
 6,443.20
 5,841.98
 6,443.20
 5,841.98
Deferred Tax Assets:
Disallowances under Income Tax Act:
 302.67
 330.35
Provision for Doubtful Debts
 331.31
 289.02
Others
 4,536.17
3878.96
 5,170.15
 4,498.33
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net)
 1,273.05
 1,343.65
21
Borrowings - Current Financial Liabilities
Secured Loans (for securities and terms of prepayment 
(Refer Note 38)
Working Capital Loan from Banks
Rupee Loans
 218.26
 1.73
Total
 218.26
 1.73
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
126
(
`
 in lakhs)
As at 
 
31st March, 2021
As at 
 
31st March, 2020
22
Trade Payables
(a)
Total Outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 13.78
 3.64
(b)
Total Outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises (Refer note 42)
 19,243.64
 15,299.31
Total
 19,257.42
 15,302.95
23
Other Current Financial Liabilities
(a)
Current maturities of Long-term debt
(i) Foreign Currency Loan (Refer Note 38)
 1,782.52
 1,844.52
(ii) Book overdraft
 7.60
 11.49
(b)
Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
 31.07
 49.36
(c)
Lease Liabilities
 2,555.87
 3,244.38
(d)
Unclaimed Dividends
 60.93
 79.94
(e)
Payable for purchase of Property, Plant and Equipments
 1,219.37
 861.85
(f)
Employee Bene˜ts
 950.92
 974.75
Total
 6,608.28
 7,066.29
24
Other Current Liabilities
(a)
Advance received from customers
 3,529.89
 2,002.59
(b)
Advance against sales of Property, Plant and Equipments
 -
 33.00
(c)
Advance against Property, Plant and Equipments
 -
 97.78
(d)
Statutory Dues:
(i) Sales Tax / Goods and Service Tax
 388.26
 232.76
(ii) Tax Deducted at Source
 376.71
 440.59
(iii) Employee Bene˜ts
 147.23
 146.63
(e)
Other Payables
 29.31
 182.80
Total
 4,471.40
 3,136.15
25
Current Provisions
(a)
Provision For Employee Bene˜ts (Refer Note 47)
(i) Gratuity
 -
 68.70
(ii) Compensated Absences
 462.23
 397.91
(b)
Others Provisions
(i) Provision For Product Warranties (Refer Note 36)
 618.78
 579.39
(ii) Provision for Others (Refer Note 36)
 40.00
 40.00
Total
 1,121.01
 1,086.00
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
127
(
`
 in lakhs)
Year ended 
 
31st March 2021
Year ended 
 
31st March 2020
26
Revenue from Operations (refer note 32)
(a)
Sale of Products
(i) Domestic
 2,00,870.40
 2,17,264.12
(ii) Export
 4,132.46
 4,780.17
 2,05,002.86
 2,22,044.29
(b)
Sale of Services
 952.34
 812.75
(c )
 Other Operating Revenue
(i) Sale of Scrap
 653.40
 669.55
(ii) Technical and Management Fees
 131.37
 556.62
(iii) Others
 2,480.19
 1,635.97
Revenue from Operations
 2,09,220.16
 2,25,719.18
27
Other Income
(a)
Interest Income
 1,088.60
 386.55
(b)
Gain on Sales of Investments
 1.54
 224.64
(c)
Gain on Cancellation/Modi˜cation of Lease
 450.97
 36.16
(d)
Gain on Revaluation of Investment
 -
 479.67
(e)
Pro˜t on Property, Plant and Equipments sold/discarded (net)
 21.50
 287.51
(f)
Foreign Exchange Gain (net)
 10.31
 -
(g)
Others
 29.35
 27.36
Total
 1,602.27
 1,441.89
28
Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Traded Goods 
and Work-in-Progress
Opening Stock
Work-in-Progress
 3,231.71
 3,387.87
Finished Goods
 10,794.72
 10,357.59
Stock in Trade
 16,654.09
 16,521.57
 30,680.52
 30,267.03
Closing Stock
Work-in-Progress
 4,142.01
 3,231.71
Finished Goods
 12,208.39
 10,794.72
Stock in Trade
 16,380.20
 16,654.09
 32,730.60
 30,680.52
Total
 (2,050.08)
 (413.49)
29
Employee Bene˜ts Expense
(a)
Salary, Wages and Bonus (Net)
 15,713.24
 17,042.41
(b)
Contribution to Provident and Other funds (Refer Note 47)
 909.10
 918.68
(c)
Workmen and Staff Welfare Expenses
 764.57
 1,107.65
Total
 17,386.91
 19,068.74
30
Finance Costs
(a)
Interest on Financial Liabilities
 987.16
 1,130.17
(b)
Interest Expense on Lease Liabilities
 1,278.19
 1,367.85
(c)
Other Borrowing Costs
 88.03
 112.45
Total
 2,353.38
 
2,610.47
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
128
(
`
 in lakhs)
Year ended 
 
31st March 2021
Year ended 
 
31st March 2020
31
Other Expenses
(a)
Stores, Spare Parts Consumed
 2,344.16
 2,418.81
(b)
Power and Fuel
 4,017.29
 4,751.82
(c)
Repairs:
(i) Building
 187.76
 243.72
(ii) Machinery
 254.24
 264.94
(iii) Others
 654.67
 1,074.31
(d)
Erection Charges
 2,448.92
 1,340.68
(e)
Labour Charges
 10,472.66
 11,284.33
(f)
Rent (Refer note 41)
 1,125.99
 1,406.71
(g)
Rates and Taxes
 485.48
 597.69
(h)
Insurance
 510.54
 371.46
(i)
Postage and Telephone Expenses
 516.42
 554.20
(j)
Packing Material Consumed
 2,207.40
 2,292.02
(k)
Travelling and Conveyance
 1,105.24
 1,947.98
(l)
Commission
 1,888.59
 1,930.22
(m)
Advertisements and Sales Promotion
 2,073.52
 3,678.27
(n)
Computer Expenses
 900.22
 890.25
(o)
Transportation and Forwarding Charges
 13,520.37
 13,800.19
(p)
Security and Guards
 570.14
 536.69
(q)
House Keeping Expenses
 350.61
 478.08
(r)
Legal and Professional Fees
 1,441.29
 1,500.00
(s)
Vehicle Expenses
 439.85
 595.26
(t)
Printing and Stationary
 94.72
 141.90
(u)
Board Meeting Fees
 46.60
 52.60
(v)
Bad Debts written off/(back)
 135.90
 218.17
(w)
Provision for Doubtful Debts and Advances
 179.85
 186.96
(x)
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses (Refer note 44)
 18.17
 -
(y)
Foreign Exchange Loss (Net)
 1.41
 26.94
(z)
Bank Charges
 266.93
 273.93
(aa)
Miscellaneous Expenses
 539.78
 967.81
Total
 48,798.72
 53,825.94
32
 
Revenue from Contract from Customer
A.
 
Revenue Streams
  
The Group generates revenue primarily from the sale of Plastic articles and Life style furniture, Furnishings 
and Accessories to its customers. Other sources of revenue include Sale of services and Technical 
management fees.
(
`
 in lakhs)
 31
st
 March, 2021
 31
st
 March, 2020
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Sale of Goods
 2,05,002.86
 2,22,044.29
Sale of Services
 952.34
 812.75
Other Operating revenue
Sale of Scrap
 653.40
 669.55
Technical and Management Fees
 131.37
 556.62
Others
 2,480.19
 1,635.97
Total revenue
 2,09,220.16
 2,25,719.18
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
129
B.
 
Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers
  
In the following table, revenue from contracts with customers is disaggregated by primary geographical 
market, major products and service lines and timing of revenue recognition.
 
(
`
 in lakhs)
Product Category
For the year ended  31 March
Plastics
Life style Furniture, 
Furnishings and Accessories
Total
 31
st
 March, 
2021
 31
st 
March, 
2020
 31
st
 March, 
2021
 31
st 
March, 
2020
 31
st
 March, 
2021
 31
st 
March, 
2020
Primary geographical markets
Domestic Sales
1,89,398.81
 1,99,427.70
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
2,05,087.69
 2,20,939.01
Export sales
 4,132.47
 4,780.17
 -
 -
 4,132.47
 4,780.17
1,93,531.28
2,04,207.87
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
2,09,220.16
 2,25,719.18
Revenue types
Sale of products
1,89,334.45
 2,00,557.69
 15,668.41
 21,486.60
2,05,002.86
 2,22,044.29
Sale of Services
 952.34
 812.75
 -
 -
 952.34
 812.75
Sale of Scrap
 641.92
 661.79
 11.48
 7.76
 653.40
 669.55
Technical and Management Fees
 131.37
 556.62
 -
 -
 131.37
 556.62
Others
 2,471.19
 1,619.02
 9.00
 16.95
 2,480.19
 1,635.97
1,93,531.27
 2,04,207.87
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
2,09,220.16
 2,25,719.18
Timing of reneue recognition
Products Transferred at a point in time
1,93,531.27
 2,04,207.87
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
2,09,220.16
 2,25,719.18
Revenue from contracts with 
Customers
1,93,531.27
 2,04,207.87
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
2,09,220.16
 2,25,719.18
External revenue as reported
1,93,531.27
 2,04,207.87
 15,688.89
 21,511.31
2,09,220.16
 2,25,719.18
 
C.
 
Reconciliation of Revenue from operation with Contract price
 
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Year ended 
 
31st March, 2021
 Year ended 
 
31st March, 2020
Contract Price
 2,27,918.61
 2,50,316.81
Less: Sales Returns
 2,916.18
 3,331.49
 Schemes and Discounts
 15,782.27
 21,266.14
Total Revenue from Operation
 2,09,220.16
 2,25,719.18
D.
 
Contract balances
 
 
The following table provides information about receivables from contracts with customers
(
`
 in lakhs)
Note
31st March, 2021
31st March, 2020
Advance from Customer, which are included in 'other 
current liabilities'
24
 3,529.89
 2,002.59
Receivables, which are included in 'trade receivables'
9
 30,809.18
 32,500.58
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
130
33
 
Tax expense
(a)
 
Amounts recognised in profit and loss
(
`
 in lakhs)
Year ended 
 
31st March 2021
Year ended 
 
31st March 2020
Current Tax
Income tax for the current year
 3,931.32
 4,460.77
Adjustment in respect of current income tax of previous year
 (36.18)
 -
Deferred income tax liability / (asset), net
Origination and reversal of temporary differences
 (197.58)
 (179.30)
 Reduction in tax rate
-
 (498.07)
 Transition impact of IND AS116
-
 131.46
Tax expense for the year
 3,697.56
 3,914.86
Effective tax rate for the year
24.91%
22.33%
 
(b)
 
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
 
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
 Year ended 31 March 2021
 Year ended 31 March 2020
 Before 
tax
 Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
 Net of 
tax
 Before 
tax
 Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
 Net of 
tax
Items that will not be 
reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurements of defined benefit 
liability (asset)
 433.21
 (109.03)
 324.18
 (122.92)
 24.17
 (98.75)
Items that will be reclassified to 
profit or loss
Effective portion of Gain/(Loss) on 
hedgeing instrument in a cash flow 
hedge
 82.11
 (20.67)
 61.44
 (62.51)
 1.90
 (60.61)
Exchange Differences in translation 
of foreign subsidiaries
(205.31)
 -
 (205.31)
47.45
 -
47.45
Share of Comprehensive Income 
Jointly Controlled entity
 0.87
 -
 0.87
 (5.13)
 -
 (5.13)
 310.88
 (129.70)
 181.18
 (143.11)
 26.07
 (117.04)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
131
(c)
 
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Year ended 
 
31st March 2021
Year ended 
 
31st March 2020
Profit before tax (
`
 in lakhs)
 14,846.64
 17,529.54
Tax using the Company™s domestic tax rate
25.17%
25.17%
Reduction in tax rate
(2.84%)
Tax effect of:
Tax impact of income not subject to tax
(2.06%)
-
Tax effects of amounts which are not deductible for taxable 
income
2.69%
0.02%
Adjustment for current tax of prior period
(1.00%)
-
Effect of different tax rate
0.57%
(0.35%)
Tax deduction Under Chapter VI
-
(0.27%)
Adjustment for current tax of prior period
-
0.75%
Others
(0.47%)
(0.15%)
24.91%
22.33%
The applicable Indian corporate statutory rate for the year ended 31 March 2021 and 31 March 2020 is 
25.17% and 25.17% respectively.
 
(d)
 
Movement in deferred tax balances
 
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Net 
balance
April 1, 
2020
 Recog
-
nised in 
profit 
or loss
 Recog
-
nised
in OCI
 Charge 
in respect 
of earlier 
years
 31st March, 2021
 Net
 
Deferred 
tax asset
 Deferred 
tax 
liability
Deferred tax asset 
/ (liabilities)
Property, plant and 
equipment
(5,841.98)
(592.74)
 (8.48)
(6,443.20)
 -
(6,443.20)
Employee benefits
 330.35
 81.35
(109.03)
 -
 302.67
 302.67
 -
Rent equalisation
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Provision for 
Doubtful Debts / 
Advances
 289.02
 62.96
 (20.67)
 -
 331.31
 331.31
 -
Other provisions
 3,878.96
 646.01
 11.20
 4,536.17
 4,536.17
 -
Tax assets 
(Liabilities)
(1,343.65)
 197.58
(129.70)
 2.72
(1,273.05)
 5,170.15
(6,443.20)
Set off tax
Net tax assets / 
(liabilities)
(1,343.65)
 197.58
(129.70)
 2.72
(1,273.05)
 5,170.15
(6,443.20)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
132
(e)
 
Movement in deferred tax balances
 
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Net 
balance
April 1, 
2019
 Recog
-
nised in 
profit or 
loss
 Recog
-
nised
in OCI
 Charge 
in respect 
of earlier 
years
 31st March, 2020
 Net
 Deferred 
tax asset
 Deferred 
tax 
liability
 Deferred tax asset / 
(liabilities)
 Property, plant and 
equipment
(2,661.38)
 2,047.55
 -
(5,228.15)
(5,841.98)
 -
(5,841.98)
 Employee benefits
 404.09
 (97.91)
 24.17
 -
 330.35
 330.35
 -
 Rent equalisation
 131.75
 (18.34)
 -
 (113.41)
 -
 -
 -
 Provision for Doubtful 
Debts / Advances
 294.13
 (7.01)
 1.90
 -
 289.02
 289.02
 -
 Other provisions
 (210.65)
(1,721.83)
 -
 5,811.44
 3,878.96
 3,878.96
 Tax assets (Liabilities)
(2,042.06)
 202.46
 26.07
 469.88
(1,343.65)
 4,498.33
(5,841.98)
 Set off tax
Net tax assets / 
(liabilities)
(2,042.06)
 202.46
 26.07
 469.88
(1,343.65)
 4,498.33
(5,841.98)
 
1.
  
The Group offsets tax assets and liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off 
current tax assets and current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities 
relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority.
 
 
2.
  
Management judgment is required in determining provision for income tax, deferred income tax 
assets and liabilities and recoverability of deferred income tax assets. The recoverability of deferred 
income tax assets is based on estimates of taxable income in which the relevant entity operates and 
the period over which deferred income tax assets will be recovered.
 
 
3.
  
The Group group have elected to exercise the option permitted under Section 115BAA of the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 as introduced by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Ordinance, 2019. Accordingly, 
the group have recognised provision for income tax for the year ended 31st March 2020 and re-
measured its deferred tax balances basis the rate prescribed in the said Section. The full impact of 
this change has been recognised in the statement of profit and loss account for the year ended 31st 
March 2020.
    
The group has reviewed its income tax treatments in order to determine whether Appendix C of Ind 
AS 12 effective from April 1, 2019 could have an impact on the financial statements and concluded 
that it has no material impact on the group™s financial statements.
34
 
Significant accounting policies
a)
 
Basis of preparation of consolidated Financial Statements:
  
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the financial statements of Nilkamal Limited (ﬁthe 
holding Companyﬂ) and its subsidiaries (ﬁthe holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred as 
the Groupﬂ) and the group™s interest in joint ventures. Company have been prepared in accordance with 
the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) to comply with the section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 (ﬁthe 
Actﬂ), and read with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015 and Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2016. The financial statements were authorised for issue by the 
Holding Company™s Board of Directors on 3
rd
 June 2021.
  
All the assets and liabilities have been classified as current or non current as per the Group™s normal 
operating cycle and other criteria set out in Schedule III to the Act. Based on the nature of products 
and the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realization in cash and cash 
equivalent, the Group has ascertained the operating cycle to be 12 months.
b)
 
Principles of Consolidation:
  
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Nilkamal Limited (ﬁthe 
Holding Companyﬂ), its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred as ﬁthe 
Groupﬂ) and the group™s interest in joint ventures.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
133
 
Subsidiaries
  
Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities) that are controlled by the Company. Control 
exists when the Company is exposed to, or has the ability to affect those returns through power over the 
entity. In assessing control, potential voting rights are considered only if the rights are substantive. The 
financial statements of subsidiaries are included in these consolidated financial statements from the date 
that control commences until the date that control ceases. The financial statements of the Company and 
its subsidiaries have been consolidated using uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other 
events in similar circumstances as mentioned in those policies.
  
Upon loss of control, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, any non-controlling 
interests and the other components of equity related to the subsidiary. Any surplus or deficit arising on 
the loss of control is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss. If the Company retains 
any interest in the previous subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value at the date that 
control is lost. Subsequently, it is accounted for as an equity accounted investee depending on the level 
of influence retained.
 
Joint ventures (equity accounted investees)
  
Joint arrangements are those arrangements over which the Company has joint control, established by 
contractual agreement and requiring unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions. 
Investments in jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method (equity accounted 
investees) and are initially recognised at cost. The carrying value of the Company™s investment includes 
goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The Company does 
not consolidate entities where the non-controlling interest (ﬁNCIﬂ) holders have certain significant 
participating rights that provide for effective involvement in significant decisions in the ordinary course of 
business of such entities. Investments in such entities are accounted by the equity method of accounting. 
When the Company™s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the carrying 
amount of that interest (including any long-term investments) is reduced to zero and the recognition 
of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Company has an obligation or has made 
payments on behalf of the investee.
 
Transactions eliminated on consolidation:
  
Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealized income and expenses arising from intra-Group 
transactions, are eliminated in full while preparing these consolidated financial statements. Unrealized 
gains or losses arising from transactions with equity accounted investees are eliminated against the 
investment to the extent of the Company™s interest in the investee.
  
The financial statements of the subsidiaries and the joint ventures used for the purpose of consolidation 
are drawn upto the same reporting date as that of the Holding Company, i.e. 31 March 2021.
  
The Subsidiary Companies and Joint ventures considered in the consolidated financial statements are:
Name of the Company
Country of 
Incorporation
% of Ownership 
held as at 31
st
 
March, 2021
% of Ownership 
held as at 31
st
 
March, 2020
Subsidiaries:
Nilkamal Eswaran Plastics Private Limited 
(after 15
th
 January 2020)
Sri Lanka
96.28%
96.28%
Nilkamal Eswaran Marketing Private Limited 
(after 15
th
 January, 2020)
Sri Lanka
96.28%
96.28%
Nilkamal Crates and Bins FZE
Ajman, UAE,
100%
100%
Nilkamal Foundation *
India
99%
99%
Nilkamal Storage System Private Limited
India
100%
100%
Joint Ventures:
Cambro Nilkamal Private Limited
India
50%
50%
ﬁNon-controlling interestﬂ represents the amount of equity attributable to Non-controlling shareholders 
at the date on which investment in the subsidiary is made and its share of movements in the equity since 
the date the parent subsidiary relationship comes into existence.
 
* 
 

These companies are private companies limited by shares formed under section 8 of the Companies Act, 
2013. No dividend can be proposed and paid to the shareholder by these companies. In the event of 
winding up or dissolution of these companies, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities, any 
property whatsoever shall be given or transferred to some other institution(s) having object similar to 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
134
the objects of these companies, to be determined by the members of this company at or before the time 
of dissolution or in default thereof by the High Court. The carrying amount of the assets and liabilities 
included within the consolidated financial statements to which these restrictions apply is 
`
 625.40 lakhs 
(previous year 
`
 401.08 lakhs) and 
`
 100.74 lakhs (previous year 
`
 117.14 lakhs).
 
Functional and presentation currency
  
These consolidated financial statements are presented in Indian rupees in lakhs, which is the Holding 
Company™s functional currency. All amounts have been rounded off to two decimal places to the nearest 
lakh, unless otherwise indicated.
  
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using uniform accounting policies for like 
transactions and other events in similar circumstances.
 
Historical cost convention
  
The Consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the 
following:


measured at fair value;

c)
 
Use of Estimates and Judgements:
  
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with Ind AS requires use of estimates 
and assumptions for some items, which might have an effect on their recognition and measurement 
in the consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of profit and loss. The actual amounts 
realised may differ from these estimates.
 
Estimates and assumptions are required in particular for:
  
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with Ind AS requires use of estimates and 
assumptions for some items, which might have an effect on their recognition and measurement in 
the balance sheet and statement of profit and loss. The actual amounts realised may differ from these 
estimates.
 
Estimates and assumptions are required in particular for:


   
Useful lives of Property plant and equipment are based on the life prescribed in Schedule II of the 
Companies Act, 2013. In cases, where the useful lives are different from that prescribed in Schedule 
II for plant and machinery and dies and moulds, they are based on technical advice, taking into 
account the nature of the asset, the estimated usage of the asset, the operating conditions of the 
asset, past history of replacement, anticipated technological changes, manufacturers™ warranties 
and maintenance support.


   
The obligation arising from defined benefit plan is determined on the basis of actuarial assumptions. 
Key actuarial assumptions include discount rate, trends in salary escalation, actuarial rates and 
life expectancy. The discount rate is determined by reference to market yields at the end of the 
reporting period on government bonds. The period to maturity of the underlying bonds correspond 
to the probable maturity of the post-employment benefit obligations.


   
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for the future tax consequences of temporary 
differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and 
unutilised business loss and depreciation carry-forwards and tax credits. Deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses, depreciation carry-forwards and 
unused tax credits could be utilised.



   
The recognition and measurement of other provisions are based on the assessment of the probability 
of an outflow of resources, and on past experience and circumstances known at the balance sheet 
date. The actual outflow of resources at a future date may therefore vary from the amount included 
in other provisions.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
135

   
All financial assets / liabilities are required to be measured at fair value on initial recognition. In 
case of financial liabilities/assets which are required to subsequently be measured at amortised cost, 
interest is accrued using the effective interest method.


   
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to 
the Chief Operating Decision Maker. The Group prepares its segment information in conformity 
with the accounting policies adopted for preparing and presenting the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group as a whole.

   
Derivatives are carried at fair value. Derivatives includes foreign currency forward contracts and 
interest rate swaps. Fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are determined using the fair 
value reports provided by respective bankers. Fair value of interest rate swaps are determined with 
respect to current market rate of interest.
 
Measurement of fair values
  
The Group™s accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement of fair values for financial 
instruments.
  
The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values. The 
management regularly reviews significant unobservable inputs and valuation adjustments. If third 
party information, such as broker quotes or pricing services, is used to measure fair values, then the 
management assesses the evidence obtained from the third parties to support the conclusion that such 
valuations meet the requirements of Ind AS, including the level in the fair value hierarchy in which such 
valuations should be classified.
  
When measuring the fair value of a financial asset or a financial liability, the Group uses observable 
market data as far as possible. Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy 
based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows.

 
quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.


 
inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or 
liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).


 
inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable 
inputs).
 


fair value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level 
of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to the entire measurement.


period during which the change has occurred.
d)
 
Standards issued but not yet effective



standards. There is no such notification which would have been applicable from April 1, 2021.
e)
 
Property, plant and equipment:
 
i.
 
Recognition and measurement
   
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
any accumulated impairment losses.
  
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment comprises:
  
a)
  
Its purchase price, including import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting 
trade discounts and rebates.
  
b)
  
Any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary 
for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
  
c)
  
The initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the 
site on which it is located, the obligation for which an entity incurs either when the item is 
acquired or as a consequence of having used the item during a particular period for purposes 
other than to produce inventories during that period.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
136
   
Income and expenses related to the incidental operations, not necessary to bring the item to the 
location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by 
management, are recognised in consolidated profit or loss.
   
Items such as spare parts, stand-by equipments and servicing that meets the definition of property, 
plant and equipment are capitalised at cost and depreciated over the useful life
   
If significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, then 
they are accounted and depreciated for as separate items (major components) of property, plant 
and equipment.
   
Any gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in profit or 
loss.
 
Subsequent expenditure
  
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if it is probable that the future economic benefits associated 
with the expenditure will flow to the Group.
f)
 
Depreciation



useful lives of assets as prescribed under Part C of Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 except 
for plant and machinery and Dies and moulds which is based on technical evaluation. Management 
believes that these useful lives best represent the period over which management expects to use 
these assets. Hence the useful life for plant and machinery of 10 years and for Dies and Moulds of 6 
years for continuous running is different from the useful life as prescribed under Part C of Schedule 
II of the Companies Act 2013;


prospectively, if appropriate



date of such addition or upto the date of such sale/discardment, as the case may be;


/ acquisition;


`
 15,000/- are depreciated 
entirely in the year of acquisition.
g)
 
Intangible Fixed Assets
  
Intangible Fixed assets, which are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives are measured at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
  
All other expenditure, including expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands, is recognised 
in profit or loss as incurred.
h)
 
Goodwill on Consolidation
  
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is not amortised but it is tested for impairment annually or more 
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired, and is carried at 
cost less accumulated impairment losses. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying 
amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
i)
 
Amortisation
  
Software (Intangible assets) are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis but not 
exceeding the period of 36 months.
  
Useful life of Intangible assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted prospectively, if 
appropriate
j)
 
Financial Instruments
  
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity. Financial instruments also include derivative contracts such 
as foreign currency foreign exchange forward contracts and, interest rate swaps and currency options; 
and embedded derivatives in the host contract.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
137
  
Financial instruments also covers contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in 
cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, as if the contracts were 
financial instruments, with the exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for 
the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the entity™s expected 
purchase, sale or usage requirements.
  
Derivatives are currently recognised at fair value on the date on which the derivative contract is entered 
into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period.
 
Cash Flow Hedges
  
The Group uses derivative financial instrument such as forward contracts and cross currency interest 
rate swaps to hedge its foreign currency risks and interest rate risks. Derivative financial instruments 
are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is 
positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
  
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken directly to the Statement 
of Profit and Loss, except for the effective portion of cash flow hedge, which is recognised in Other 
Comprehensive Income and accumulated in Cash Flow Hedge Reserve included in the Reserves and Surplus 
while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
  
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:
  
Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or 
liability.
  
Cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to 
particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability.
  
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge 
relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective 
and strategy for undertaking the hedge. The documentation includes identification of the hedging 
instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will 
assess the effectiveness of changes in the hedging instrument™s fair value in offsetting the exposure to 
changes in the hedged item™s fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. Such hedges are 
expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed 
on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial 
reporting periods for which they were designated.
  
Hedge accounting is discontinued from the last testing date when the hedging instrument expires or is 
sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Cumulative gain or loss on such 
hedging instrument recognised in Cash Flow Hedge Reserve is retained there until the forecasted transaction 
occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in 
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve is transferred to consolidated statement of Profit and Loss for the year.
 
Financial assets
 
Classification
  
The Group shall classify financial assets as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through 
other comprehensive income or fair value through profit or loss on the basis of its business model for 
managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
 
Initial recognition and measurement
  
All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at 
fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the financial 
asset. Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established 
by regulation or convention in the market place (regular way trades) are recognised on the trade date, 
i.e., the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
 
Debt instruments at amortised cost
 
A 
 
‚debt instrument™ is measured at the amortised cost if both the following conditions are met:
  
a)
  
The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets for collecting 
contractual cash flows, and
  
b)
  
Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
138
  
After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount 
or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is 
included in finance income in the profit or loss. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the 
profit or loss. This category generally applies to trade and other receivables. For more information on 
receivables, refer to Note 45.
 
Equity investments
  
All equity investments in scope of Ind-AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity instruments which are 
held for trading are classified as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Group decides to classify 
the same either as at FVOCI or FVTPL. The Group makes such election on an instrument-by-instrument 
basis. The classification is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.
  
If the Group decides to classify an equity instrument as FVOCI, then all fair value changes on the instrument, 
excluding dividends, are recognised in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to profit 
and loss, even on sale of investment. However, the Group may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within 
equity.
  
Equity instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all changes 
recognised in the profit and loss.
 
Derecognition
  
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a Group of similar financial 
assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e. removed from the Group™s balance sheet) when:



to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a ‚pass-through™ 
arrangement; and either (a) the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
asset, or (b) the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards 
of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset
  
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a 
pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if and to what extent it has retained the risks and rewards of 
ownership. When it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of 
the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Group continues to recognise the transferred asset to 
the extent of the Group™s continuing involvement. In that case, the Group also recognises an associated 
liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights 
and obligations that the Group has retained.
  
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the 
lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the 
Group could be required to repay.
 
Impairment of financial assets
  
In accordance with Ind-AS 109, the Group applies expected credit loss (ECL) model for measurement and 
recognition of impairment loss on the following financial assets and credit risk exposure:
 
a)
  
Financial assets that are debt instruments, and are measured at amortised cost e.g., loans, debt 
securities, deposits, and bank balance.
 
b)
  
Trade receivables - The application of simplified approach does not require the Group to track 
changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each 
reporting date, right from its initial recognition. Trade receivables are tested for impairment on a 
specific basis after considering the sanctioned credit limits, security like letters of credit, security 
deposit collected etc. and expectations about future cash flows.

 
Classification
  
The Group classifies all financial liabilities as subsequently measured at amortised cost, except for financial 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. Such liabilities, including derivatives that are liabilities, shall 
be subsequently measured at fair value.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
139
 
Initial recognition and measurement
  
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective 
hedge, as appropriate.
  
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and 
payables, net of directly attributable and incremental transaction cost.
  
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or 
costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement 
of profit and loss.
  
The Group™s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings including bank 
overdrafts and derivative financial instruments.
 
Derecognition
  
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or 
expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially 
different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or 
modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. 
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the consolidated statement of profit or 
loss.
 
Offsetting of financial instruments
  
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated 
balance sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is 
an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.

  
Inventories of Raw Materials, Packing Materials, Stores and Spares, Work-in Progress, Traded goods and 
Finished goods are valued ‚at cost and net realisable value™ whichever is lower. Cost comprises all cost of 
purchase, appropriate direct production overheads and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories 
to their present location and condition. Cost formulae used is ‚Weighted Average Cost™. Due allowance is 
estimated and made for defective and obsolete items, wherever necessary, based on the past experience 
of the Group. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less 
the estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Raw materials and 
other supplies held for use in the production of inventories are not written down below cost except in 
case where material prices have declined and it is estimated that the cost of the finished product will 
exceed its net realisable value.
l)
 
Employee Benefits:
  
All employee benefits payable within twelve months of rendering the service are recognised in the period 
in which the employee renders the related service.
  
Contribution to Defined Contribution Plans such as Provident Fund, Employees™ State Insurance 
Corporation, etc., are charged to the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss as incurred.

actuarial valuation by an independent actuary at the end of each year, using the Projected Unit Credit 
Method. In the case of gratuity, which is funded, the fair value of the plan assets is reduced from the gross 
obligation under the defined benefit plans, to recognise the obligation on net basis.
  
Remeasurement of net defined benefit liability, which comprises actuarial gains and losses and the 
return on plan assets (excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any excluding interest), are 
recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
 
Other Long Term Employee Benefits
 
Compensated Absences
  
Accumulated compensated absences, which are expected to be availed or encashed within 12 months 
from the end of the year end are treated as short term employee benefits. The obligation towards the 
same is measured at the expected cost of accumulating compensated absences as the additional amount 
expected to be paid as a result of the unused entitlement as at the year end. Accumulated compensated 
absences, which are expected to be availed or encashed beyond 12 months from the end of the year end 
are treated as other long term employee benefits. The Group™s liability is actuarially determined (using 
the Projected Unit Credit method) at the end of each year. Actuarial losses/ gains are recognised in the 
consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss in the year in which they arise.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
140
m)
 
Foreign Exchange Transactions:
  
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Group at 
the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
  
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional 
currency at the exchange rate at the reporting date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured 
at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate when 
the fair value was determined. Foreign currency differences are generally recognised in profit or loss. 
Non-monetary items that are measured based on historical cost in a foreign currency are not translated 
using the exchange rate at the date of the transactions.
 
Translation of financial statements of foreign entities
  
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into 
`
 (Indian Rupees) at 
the exchange rate prevailing at the reporting date and their statements of profit and loss are translated 
at exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. For practical reasons, the group uses an 
average rate to translate income and expense items, if the average rate approximates the exchange rates 
at the dates of the transactions. The exchange differences arising on translation for consolidation are 
recognised in Foreign Currency Translation Reserve. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component 
of Foreign Currency Translation Reserve relating to that particular foreign operation is reclassified to 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
n)
 
Borrowing Costs:
  
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset that necessarily 
takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of 
that asset till the date it is ready for its intended use or sale. Other borrowing costs are recognised as an 
expense in the period in which they are incurred.

  
The Company derives revenues primarily from sale of manufactured goods, traded goods and related 
services.
  
Revenue is recognised on satisfaction of performance obligation upon transfer of control of promised 
products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to 
receive in exchange for those products or services. The performance obligations in our contracts are 
fulfilled at the time of dispatch, delivery or upon formal customer acceptance depending on customer 
terms.
  
Revenue is measured based on transaction price which is fair value of the consideration received or 
receivable, after deduction of any discounts, sales incentives / schemes and any taxes or duties collected 
on behalf of the government such as goods and services tax, etc. Accumulated experience is used to 
estimate the provision for such discounts and sales incentives / schemes. Revenue is only recognised to the 
extent that it is highly probable a significant reversal will not occur.
  
The Company recognises provision for sales return, based on the historical results, measured on net basis 
of the margin of the sale. An estimate is made of goods that will be returned and a liability is recognised 
for this amount using a best estimate based on accumulated experience.
  
Dividend income is recognised in statement of profit and loss only when the right to receive payment is 
established.
 
Export incentives receivable under various schemes are accounted on accrual basis.
 
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
p)
 
Leases
  
At the inception it is assessed, whether a contract is a lease or contains a lease. A contract is a lease or 
contains a lease if it conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, for a period of time, in 
exchange for consideration.
  
To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, Company assesses 
whether the contract involves the use of an identified asset. Use may be specified explicitly or implicitly.


asset.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
141


throughout the period of use



determined when Company has the right to use the asset or Company designed the asset in a way 
that predetermines how and for what purpose it will be used.
  
At the commencement or modification of a contract, that contains a lease component, Company allocates 
the consideration in the contract, to each lease component, on the basis of its relative standalone prices. 
For leases of property, it is elected not to separate non-lease components and account for the lease and 
non-lease components as a single lease component.
 
As a Lessee:
 
Company recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date.
 
Right-of-use asset (ROU):
  
The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost. Cost comprises of the initial amount of the lease 
liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, any initial direct 
costs incurred by the lessee, an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to 
restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located less any lease incentives received.
  
After the commencement date, a lessee shall measure the right-of-use asset applying cost model, which 
is cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses and also adjusted for 
certain re-measurements of the lease liability.
  
Right-of-use asset is depreciated using straight-line method from the commencement date to the end of 
the lease term. If the lease transfers the ownership of the underlying asset to the Company at the end 
of the lease term or the cost of the right-of-use asset reflects Company will exercise the purchase option, 
ROU will be depreciated over the useful life of the underlying asset, which is determined based on the 
same basis as property, plant and equipment.
 
Lease liability:
  
Lease liability is initially measured at the present value of lease payments that are not paid at the 
commencement date. Discounting is done using the implicit interest rate in the lease, if that rate cannot 
be readily determined, then using Company™s incremental borrowing rate. Incremental borrowing rate is 
determined based on entity™s borrowing rate adjusted for terms of the lease and type of the asset leased.
  
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprises of fixed payments (including 
in substance fixed payments), variable lease payments that depends on an index or a rate, initially 
measured using the index or rate at the commencement date, amount expected to be payable under 
a residual value guarantee, the exercise price under a purchase option that the Company is reasonably 
certain to exercise, lease payments in an optional renewal period if the Company is reasonably certain 
to exercise an extension option, and penalties for early termination of a lease unless the Company is 
reasonably certain not to terminate early.
  
Lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Lease liability is re-
measured when there is a change in the lease term, a
 
change in its assessment of whether it will exercise a 
purchase, extension or termination option or a revised in-substance fixed lease payment, a
 
change in the 
amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee and a change in future lease payments 
arising from change in an index or rate.
  
When the lease liability is re-measured corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the 
right-of-use asset. If the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero it will be 
recorded in statement of profit and loss.
  
Right-of-use asset is presented under ﬁProperty Plant and Equipmentﬂ and lease liabilities are presented 
under ﬁFinancial liabilitiesﬂ in the balance sheet.
  
Company has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short term leases. The 
lease payments associated with these leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term.
 
Lessor
  
At the commencement or modification of a contract, that contains a lease component, Company allocates 
the consideration in the contract, to each lease component, on the basis of its relative standalone prices.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
142
  
At the inception of the lease, it is determined whether it is a finance lease or an operating lease. If the 
lease transfers
 
substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset, 
then it is a financial lease, otherwise it is an operating lease.
  
If the lease arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, then the consideration in the contract 
is allocated using the principles of IND AS 115. The Company tests for the impairment losses at the year 
end. Payment received under operating lease is recognised as income on straight line basis, over the lease 
term.
  
The accounting policies applicable to the Company as a lessor, in the comparative period, were not 
different from IND AS 116.
q)
 
Business Combination:
  
The Group applies the acquisition method in accounting for business combinations. The consideration 
transferred by the Group to obtain control of a business is calculated as the sum of the fair values of 
assets transferred and liabilities assumed as at the acquisition date i.e. date on which it obtains control of 
the acquire, which includes the fair value of any asset or liability arising from a contingent consideration 
arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the statement of profit and loss as incurred, 
except to the extent related to the issue of debt or equity securities.
  
Where the consideration transferred exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed, the excess is recorded as goodwill. Alternatively, in case of bargain purchase wherein the 
consideration transferred is lower than the fair value of the net identifiable assets and liabilities assumed, 
the difference as a gain in other comprehensive income and accumulate the gain in equity as capital 
reserve
  
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at 
their fair values on acquisition-date.
  
Intangible Assets acquired in a Business Combination and recognised separately from Goodwill are 
initially recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date (which is regarded as their cost).
  
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a Business Combination are reported at 
cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible 
assets that are acquired separately.
r)
 
Impairment of non-financial assets
  
Goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are 
tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
they might be impaired.
  
The carrying values of assets/cash generating units at each balance sheet date are reviewed for impairment 
if any indication of impairment exists. If the carrying amount of the assets exceed the estimated recoverable 
amount, an impairment is recognised for such excess amount.
  
The recoverable amount is the greater of the net selling price and their value in use. Value in use is arrived 
at by discounting the future cash flows to their present value based on an appropriate discount factor.
  
When there is indication that an impairment loss recognised for an asset (other than a revalued asset) in 
earlier accounting periods which no longer exists or may have decreased, such reversal of impairment loss 
is recognised in the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, to the extent the amount was previously 
charged to the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss. In case of revalued assets, such reversal is not 
recognised. An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not subsequently reversed.

  
Cash and cash equivalent in the consolidated balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and 
short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant 
risk of changes in value.
  
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash 
and short-term deposits, as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as they are considered an 
integral part of the Group™s cash management.
t)
 
Taxation:
  
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. It is recognised in profit or loss except to the 
extent that it relates to a business combination, or items recognised directly in equity or in OCI.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
143
 
i.
 
Current tax
   
Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the 
year and any adjustment to the tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years. It is measured 
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Current tax also includes any 
tax arising from dividends.
  
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only if, the Group:
  
a)
 
has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts; and
  
b)
  
intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously.
  
Uncertain Tax position:
   
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations 
in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where 
appropriate. The provision is estimated based on one of two methods, the expected value method 
(the sum of the probability weighted amounts in a range of possible outcomes) or the single most 
likely amount method, depending on which is expected to better predict the resolution of the 
uncertainty.
 
ii.
 
Deferred tax
   
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. 
Deferred tax is not recognised for:



not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
  


the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is 
probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and


   
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses, unused tax credits and deductible 
temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available 
against which they can be used. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are 
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised; such 
reductions are reversed when the probability of future taxable profits improves.
   
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and recognised to the 
extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they 
can be used.
   
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences 
when they reverse, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
   
The measurement of deferred tax reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner 
in which the Group expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its 
assets and liabilities.
  
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only if:
  
a)
  
the entity has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities; and
  
b)
  
the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the 
same taxation authority on the same taxable entity.
   
Deferred tax asset / liabilities in respect of on temporary differences which originate and reverse 
during the tax holiday period are not recognised. Deferred tax assets / liabilities in respect of 
temporary differences that originate during the tax holiday period but reverse after the tax holiday 
period are recognised.

  
Grants received from the government are recognized at their fair value where there is reasonable 
assurance that the grant will be received and the Group will comply with the conditions.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
144
  
Government grants related to income are deferred and recognized in the profit or loss over the period 
necessary to match them with the costs that they are intended to compensate and netted off with the 
expense in the consolidated statement of profit and loss.
  
Government grants related to purchase of property plant and equipment are recognised by deducting 
the grant from the carrying amount of the property plant and equipment in which case the grant is 
recognised in profit or loss as a reduction of depreciation charged.

  
A provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a 
past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required 
to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. These are reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current management estimates.
  
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected 
future cash flows specific to the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised as finance cost.
  
Contingent Liabilities are disclosed in respect of possible obligations that arise from past events, but their 
existence is confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not 
wholly within the control of the Company.
  
A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed 
only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the 
control of the entity. Contingent Assets are not recognised till the realization of the income is virtually 
certain. However, the same are disclosed in the financial statements where an inflow of economic benefits 
is probable.
w)
 
Earnings per share
  
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit for the period attributable to the equity 
shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the 
period. The weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period and for all periods 
presented is adjusted for events, such as bonus shares, other than the conversion of potential equity 
shares that have changed the number of equity shares outstanding, without a corresponding change in 
resources.
  
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, the net profit for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders and the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period is 
adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares.
35.
 
Contingent Liabilities and commitments to the extent not provided for in respect of:
 
a)
 
Contingent liabilities :-
  
1)
 
(
`
 in lakhs)
Sr.no.
Particulars
31
st
 March, 2021
31
st
 March, 2020
i)
Excise and Service Tax matters
296.28
292.71
ii)
Sales Tax matters *
 966.11
1,117.23
iii)
Income Tax matters
29.58
29.58
iv)
On account of Cross Subsidy Surcharge on 
electricity
 9.38
9.38
  
* 
 

Includes 
`
 842.32 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 972.61 lakhs) paid in full against the disputed Sales Tax 
liability under the Kerala General Sales Tax Act, 1963. The matter is pending for hearing in the 
Honorable Supreme Court of India.
  
2) 
  
In respect of Supreme Court Judgement on which allowances paid to the employees should 
be identified for inclusion in basic wages for the purposes of computation of Provident Fund 
contribution.
    
In view of the management, based on legal advice obtained, the liability for the period from 
the date of the SC order to 31 March 2019 is not significant and has not been given effect to 
in the books of account.
 
b)
 
C
ommitments
   
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for 
(net of advances) 
`
 5,135.44
 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 1,900.46 lakhs).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
145
36.
 
Provision for warranty and other provisions:
(
`
 
in lakhs)
31
st
 March, 2021
31
st
 March, 2020
Warranty 
Provision
Other 
Provisions
Warranty 
Provision
Other Provisions
Opening Balance
579.39
100.00
606.62
100.00
Additions
682.22
00.00
496.86
0.00
Utilisations / Reversals
642.83
60.00
524.09
60.00
Closing Balance
618.78
40.00
579.39
40.00
   
Provision is estimated for expected warranty claim in respect of products sold during the year based 
on past experience regarding defective claim of products and cost of rectification or replacement. 
It is expected that most of this cost will be incurred over next 12
 
months which is as per warranty 
terms.
   
Other provisions are provisions in respect of probable claims, the outflow of which would depend 
on the cessation of the respective events.
37.
 
Share capital
 
(a)
  
Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to Equity Shares:
 The Company has only one 
class of equity shares having a value of 
`
 10 per share. Each shareholder is eligible for one vote 
per share held. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the 
shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend. In the 
event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the 
Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding.
 
(b)
  
Details of equity shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate 
equity shares in the Company:
Name of the Shareholder
As at 31
st
 March, 2021
As at 31
st
 March, 2020
No. of
shares held
% of 
Holding
No. of
shares held
% of Holding
Hiten V. Parekh
1,901,258
12.74%
1,892,258
12.68%
Manish V. Parekh
1,551,563
10.16%
1,551,563
10.40%
Nayan S. Parekh
2,201,704
14.75%
2,189,704
14.67%
Nilkamal Builders Private Limited
1,464,000
9.81%
1,464,000
9.81%
Heirloom Finance Private Limited
9,12,000
6.11%
912,000
6.11%
 
(c)
  
Reconciliation of number of equity shares outstanding as at the beginning and closing of 
the year
Particulars
2020-21
2019-20
Number
(
`
 in lakhs)
Number
(
`
 in lakhs)
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the year
14,922,525
1,492.25
14,922,525
1,492.25
Shares issued during the year
-
-
-
-
Shares bought back during the year
-
-
-
-
Shares outstanding at the end of the year
14,922,525
1,492.25
14,922,525
1,492.25
38.
 
Borrowings:
(A)
 
Secured loans:
 
(a)
 
Working Capital loans:
   
Working capital facilities of 
`
 Nil (Previous year 
`
 Nil) from Banks are secured on first pari passu 
basis by way of hypothecation of current assets (inventories and trade receivables) of the Company, 
second pari passu charge by way of equitable mortgage on the Company™s immoveable property. 
Working Capital Loans repayable on Demand having Interest Rate from 7.10% to 8.90% p.a. 
(Previous Year 9.25% p.a to 9.60% p.a).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
146
 
 
Subsidiary Companies
  
Working Capital loans:
   
Working capital facilities of 
`
 218.26 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 1.73 lakhs) from Banks are secured on 
first pari passu basis by way of hypothecation of current assets of the Company, second pari passu 
charge by way of equitable mortgage on the Company™s immoveable property. Working Capital 
Loans repayable on Demand having Interest Rate 8.25% to 9.35% (Previous Year 10.97% p.a) .
 
(b)
 
Foreign Currency Term Loans:
   
Foreign currency term loans of 
`
 4,636.57 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 6,634.60 lakhs) from the Banks are 
secured on first pari passu basis by way of equitable mortgage created on Company™s moveable 
properties. These loans are repayable in equal quarterly installment, last installments due on March 
2023 and February 2024 as per repayment schedules, having interest rate from 3 month LIBOR 
+1.05% to 1.38% p.a. which are reset periodically.
39 
 
Derivative Instruments outstanding at the Balance Sheet date:
 
(a)
 
Forward Contracts against imports:
   
Forward contracts to buy USD
 
29.46 lakhs and CNY 15.61 lakhs (Previous Year USD 30 lakhs and 
Euro 15 lakhs) amounting to 
`
 2,336.14 lakhs (Previous Year 
`
 852.54 lakhs).
 
(b)
 
Forward Contracts against Exports:
   
Forward contracts to buy USD
 
5.25 lakhs (Previous Year USD Nil) amounting to 
`
 385.54 lakhs 
(Previous Year 
`
 Nil).
   
The above contracts / options have been undertaken to hedge against the foreign exchange 
exposures arising from transactions like import of goods.
 
(c)
 
 
USD Floating rate/INR Floating rate cross-currency interest rate swap (CCIRS):
   
Outstanding USD/INR Floating rate cross-currency interest rate swap USD 63.42 lakhs (Previous year 
USD
 87.68
 lakhs) amounting to 
` 4
,636.57
 
lakhs 
(
Previous Year 
`
 6,634.60 lakhs)
.
   
The above contracts have been undertaken to hedge against the foreign exchange exposures 
arising from foreign currency loan and interest there on, resulting net loss recognised in Cash flow 
Hedge Reserve of 
` 
61.44 Lakhs (Previous Year loss of 
`
 60.61 lakhs).
40. 
 
Dues to micro and small suppliers
  
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, (MSMED) which came into 
force from 2 October 2006, certain disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and 
Medium enterprises. On the basis of the information and records available with the management, there 
are no outstanding dues to the Micro and Small enterprises as defined in the Micro, Small and Medium 
Enterprises Development Act, 2006.
Particulars
31
st
 March, 2021
31
st
 March, 2020
Principal amount remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the 
year end
13.78
3.64
Interest due thereon
-
-
Amount of interest paid by the Company in terms of section 16 of 
the MSMED, along with the amount of the payment made to the 
supplier beyond the appointed day during the accounting year
-
-
Amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay 
in making payment (which have been paid but beyond the 
appointed day during the period) but without adding the 
interest specified under the MSMED
-
-
Amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end 
of the accounting year
-
-
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
147
 
41
.
 
Related Party Disclosures:
 
Names of related parties and description of relationship
I
Subsidiaries where control exists
Nilkamal Eswaran Plastics Private Limited
Nilkamal Eswaran Marketing Private Limited
Nilkamal Storage Systems Private Limited with effect 
from 23
rd
 August 2019 (formerly known as Nilkamal BITO 
Storage Systems Private Limited)
Nilkamal Crates and Bins, FZE.
Nilkamal Foundation (a Section 8 Company)
II
Joint Ventures
Nilkamal Storage Systems Private Limited (ceased to be 
joint venture effective from 22nd August 2019 (formerly 
known as Nilkamal BITO Storage Systems Private Limited)
Cambro Nilkamal Private Limited
III
Key Management Personnel
Mr. Vamanrai V. Parekh, Chairman Emeritus (effective 
from 15
th
 August, 2020 and previously designated as 
Chairman)
Mr. Sharad V. Parekh, Chairman (effective from 15
th
 
August, 2020 and previously designated as Managing 
Director)
Mr. Hiten V. Parekh, Managing Director (effective from 
15
th
 August, 2020 and previously designated as Executive 
Director)
Mr. Manish V. Parekh, Joint Managing Director (effective 
from 15
th
 August, 2020 and previously designated as 
Executive Director)
Mr. Nayan S. Parekh, Executive Director
Mr. Mihir H. Parekh, Executive Director (effective from 1
st
 
February, 2020)
Independent Director
:
Mr. K. R. Ramamoorthy
Mr. Mahendra V. Doshi
Mr. Mufazzal S. Federal
Mr. S. K. Palekar
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
Mr. Krishnamurthi Venkataraman
IV
Relatives of Key Management Personnel
Mr. Mihir H. Parekh (effective from 1
st
 February, 2020 
became Executive Director)
V
Enterprise owned or significantly influenced 
by key Management Personnel or their 
relatives, where transactions have taken place
Nilkamal Crates & Containers
 
M. Tech Industries
 
Raga Plast Private Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
148
41
.
 
Related Party Disclosures 
(Continued)
:
(
`
 in lakhs)
Joint 
Venture
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises 
owned or 
significantly 
influenced by 
key management 
personnel or 
their relatives
Total
Joint 
Venture
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises 
owned or 
significantly 
influenced by 
key management 
personnel or 
their relatives
Total
2020 Œ 21
Sales of Finished Goods / Others
1,086.31
-
-
232.48
1,318.79
1,594.47
-
-
265.99
1,860.46
Purchases of raw materials, 
intermediaries and finished goods
43.40
-
-
3,036.13
3,079.53
270.68
-
-
2,778.70
3,049.38
Paid for services and labour charges
-
-
-
119.19
119.19
-
-
-
155.83
155.83
Received for services and labour charges
-
-
-
-
-
15.76
-
-
-
15.76
Deputation Charges
-
-
-
-
-
8.01
-
-
-
8.01
Technical and Management Fees 
received
154.18
-
-
-
154.18
656.05
-
-
-
656.05
Dividend received
10.50
-
-
-
10.50
42.00
-
-
-
42.00
Purchase of fixed assets
 -
-
-
-
-
 127.48
-
127.48
Rent paid
-
-
-
291.74
291.74
-
-
-
309.81
309.81
Remuneration to Directors
-
 1,111.28
-
-
1,111.28
-
 1,445.95
-
-
1,445.95
Salary Paid
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
32.53
-
32.53
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
Expenses
20.55
-
-
-
20.55
-
-
-
-
-
Board and Audit Committee sitting fees
-
46.60
-
-
46.60
-
52.60
-
-
52.60
Reimbursement of Expenses
9.67
-
-
-
9.67
28.13
-
-
-
28.13
Rent Received
24.43
-
-
-
24.43
30.78
-
-
-
30.78
Balances Outstanding at the year 
end:
Deposits Receivable
-
-
-
720.00
720.00
-
-
-
720.00
720.00
Trade and Other Receivables
250.73
-
-
47.57
298.30
316.37
-
-
18.95
335.32
Other Payables
28.66
-
-
42.39
71.05
27.88
-
-
95.98
123.86
Note: 
 
1. 
 

The remuneration paid to key managerial personal excludes gratuity and compensated absences as the provision is computed for th
e Holding 
Company as a whole and separate figures are not available.
  
2. 
 

The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm™s length transactions. Outstanding  
balances at the year-end are unsecured.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
149
41
.
 
Related Party Disclosures 
(Continued)
:
(
`
 in lakhs)
Joint 
Venture
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises 
owned or 
significantly 
influenced by 
key management 
personnel or 
their relatives
Total
Joint 
Venture
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises 
owned or 
significantly 
influenced by 
key management 
personnel or 
their relatives
Total
2020 Œ 21
Sales of Finished Goods / Others
1,086.31
-
-
232.48
1,318.79
1,594.47
-
-
265.99
1,860.46
Purchases of raw materials, 
intermediaries and finished goods
43.40
-
-
3,036.13
3,079.53
270.68
-
-
2,778.70
3,049.38
Paid for services and labour charges
-
-
-
119.19
119.19
-
-
-
155.83
155.83
Received for services and labour charges
-
-
-
-
-
15.76
-
-
-
15.76
Deputation Charges
-
-
-
-
-
8.01
-
-
-
8.01
Technical and Management Fees 
received
154.18
-
-
-
154.18
656.05
-
-
-
656.05
Dividend received
10.50
-
-
-
10.50
42.00
-
-
-
42.00
Purchase of fixed assets
 -
-
-
-
-
 127.48
-
127.48
Rent paid
-
-
-
291.74
291.74
-
-
-
309.81
309.81
Remuneration to Directors
-
 1,111.28
-
-
1,111.28
-
 1,445.95
-
-
1,445.95
Salary Paid
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
32.53
-
32.53
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
Expenses
20.55
-
-
-
20.55
-
-
-
-
-
Board and Audit Committee sitting fees
-
46.60
-
-
46.60
-
52.60
-
-
52.60
Reimbursement of Expenses
9.67
-
-
-
9.67
28.13
-
-
-
28.13
Rent Received
24.43
-
-
-
24.43
30.78
-
-
-
30.78
Balances Outstanding at the year 
end:
Deposits Receivable
-
-
-
720.00
720.00
-
-
-
720.00
720.00
Trade and Other Receivables
250.73
-
-
47.57
298.30
316.37
-
-
18.95
335.32
Other Payables
28.66
-
-
42.39
71.05
27.88
-
-
95.98
123.86
Note: 
 
1. 
 

The remuneration paid to key managerial personal excludes gratuity and compensated absences as the provision is computed for th
e Holding 
Company as a whole and separate figures are not available.
  
2. 
 

The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm™s length transactions. Outstanding  
balances at the year-end are unsecured.
42. 
  
Acquisition of additional stake in Nilkamal Storage Systems Private Limited (formerly known 
as Nilkamal Bito Storage Systems Private Limited) during the year ended 31
st
 March, 2020.
a)
  
During the previous year Company entered into agreement with Bito Lagertechnik Bittmann GmbH 
(Germany) to acquire balance 50% shareholding in Nilkamal Storage Systems Private Limited (formerly 
known as Nilkamal Bito Storage Systems Private Limited) , a Joint Venture Company in India. Post transfer 
of shares said Company became the wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The agreement was 
effective from 23
rd
 August, 2019 and a cash consideration of 
`
 5,097.10 lakhs was paid to Bito Lagertechnik 
Bittmann GmbH
 
(Germany) under this agreement. Nilkamal Storage Systems Private Limited is in the 
business of Material handling storage systems of metal (racking and shelving).
b)
 
Acquired Receivables
  
As on date of acquisition , gross contractual amount of the acquired Trade receivables was 
`
 2,014.19 
lakhs against which no provisions had been considered since fair value of the acquired receivables were 
equal to carrying value as on the date of acquisition.
c)
  
50% Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed as on the date of 
acquisition is as below
.
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
Amount
Property, Plant and Equipment
 3,152.30
Capital Work-In-Progress
 58.78
Non Current Financial Assets
 14.93
Current Tax Assets
 42.00
Other Non Current Assets
 72.57
Inventories
 3,081.83
Trade Receivables
 4,028.38
Cash & Cash Equivalents
 351.13
Bank Balances other than above
 224.83
Current Loans
 29.27
Other Current Financial Assets
 12.06
Other Current Assets
 1,165.23
Total Asset (A)
 12,233.30
Non-Current Provision
 36.53
Deferred Tax Liabilities
 362.87
Trade Payables
 1,883.19
Other Current Financial Liabilities
 83.82
Other Current Liabilities
 854.91
Current Provisions
 37.48
Current tax liabilities
 139.46
Total Liabilities (B)
 3,398.26
Total Fair Value of Net Assets (A Œ B)
 8,835.04
Less: Fair value of 50% Investment already held
 4,417.52
Fair Value of Balance 50% acquired
 4,417.52
Less: Consideration Paid
5,097.10
Goodwill Recognised for the year ended 31
st
 March, 2020
 675.60
d)
  
Acquisition-related costs amounting to 
` 
18.53 lakhs on legal fees, valuation fees etc have been recognised 
as legal and professional expense in the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss within other expenses.
e)
  
The fair value of 50% equity interest already held before the acquisition date is 
` 
4,417.52 lakhs. The 
amount of gain 
` 
479.67 lakhs as a result of remeasuring already held 50% investment is recognised as 
other income in the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss .
f)
  
From the date of acquisition, Nilkamal Storage Systems Private Limited (formerly known as Nilkamal Bito 
Storage Systems Private Limited) contributed 
`
 13,081.95 lakhs to revenue from operations and a profit 
of 
` 
398.85 lakhs to the consolidated profit before tax on a pre-consolidation adjustments basis.
  
Had these business combination been effected at April 1, 2019, the revenue of the Group from continuing 
operations would have been higher by 
` 
8,293.59 lakhs and profit from continuing operations would 
have been higher by 
` 
347.65 lakhs on a pre-consolidation adjustments basis.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
150
 43.
 
Covid-19 Impact:
  
The year ended March 31, 2021 was unprecedented due to the spread of Coronavirus pandemic across 
the globe, impacting all the geographies of our operations in the early months of the period. As per our 
current assessment, no significant impact on carrying amounts of inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, 
trade receivables, other investments and other financial assets is expected, and we continue to monitor 
changes in future economic conditions.
44.
 
Corporate Social Responsibility
  
As required by Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013 and rules therein, a Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) committee has been formed by the Holding Company. The Group has spent the following amount 
during the year towards corporate social responsibility (CSR) for activities listed under schedule VII of the 
Companies Act, 2013
(a)
  
Gross amount required to be spent by the Group during the year 2020-21 
`
 354.38 lakhs
 (
Previous Year
 `
 
358.24 lakhs).
(b)
 
Amount spent during the year on:
 
              
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
2020-21
2019-20
 
(i) Construction/ acquisition of any asset
 (ii) On purpose other than (i) above
-
* 354.77
-
* 358.50
  
*Amount of 
`
 336.60 lakhs (Previous year 
`
 358.50 lakhs) paid to Nilkamal Foundation for CSR activities 
which has been eliminated on Consolidation.
45
 
Financial instruments Œ Fair values and risk management
A.
 
Accounting classification and fair values
  
Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels 
in the fair value hierarchy, are presented below. It does not include the fair value information for 
financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value if the carrying amount is a reasonable 
approximation of fair value.
March 31, 2021
 Carrying amount
 Fair value
 FVTPL
FVTOCI
Amortised 
Cost
 Total
 Level 1
 Level 2
 Level 3
 Total
Financial Assets
Non Current
Unquoted Equity Shares *
 42.82
 -
 0.32
 43.14
 -
 -
 -
 -
Loans to Employees
 -
 -
 262.59
 262.59
 -
 -
 -
 -
Security Deposits
 -
 -
 2,021.49
 2,021.49
 -
 -
 -
 -
Other financial assets
 -
 -
 296.76
 296.76
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Derivative Asset
-
 88.79
 -
 88.79
 -
 88.79
 -
 88.79
Current
Trade receivables
 -
 -
 30,809.18
 30,809.18
 -
 -
 -
 -
Cash and cash equivalents
 -
 -
 3,108.16
 3,108.16
 -
 -
 -
 -
Current Investments
1,571.76
 -
 -
 1,571.76
 1,571.76
 -
 -
1,571.76
Other bank balances
 -
 -
 5,944.78
 5,944.78
 -
 -
 -
 -
Loans
 -
 -
 797.23
 797.23
 -
 -
 -
 -
Other Current Financial Assets
 -
 -
 1,738.08
 1,738.08
 -
 -
 -
 -
1,614.58
 88.79
 44,978.59
 46,681.96
 1,571.76
 88.79
 -
1,660.55
Financial liabilities
Non-Current Borrowings
 -
 -
 2,854.05
 2,854.05
 -
 -
 -
 -
Current Borrowings
 -
 -
 218.26
 218.26
 -
 -
 -
 -
Trade and other payables
 -
 -
 19,257.42
 19,257.42
 -
 -
 -
 -
Other Non-Current financial 
liabilities
 -
 -
 21,828.66
 21,828.66
 -
 -
 -
 -
Other Current financial 
liabilities
 -
 -
 6,608.28
 6,608.28
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 50,766.67
 50,766.67
 -
 -
 -
 -
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
151
45
 
Financial instruments Œ Fair values and risk management 
(Continued)
A.
 
Accounting classification and fair values 
(Continued)
March 31, 2020
 Carrying amount
 Fair value
 FVTPL
 FVTOCI
 Amortised 
Cost
 Total
 Level 1
 Level 2
 Level 3
 Total
 Financial assets
 Non Current
 Unquoted Equity Shares *
 42.82
 -
 0.32
 43.14
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Loans to Employees
 -
 -
 342.84
 342.84
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Security Deposits
 -
 -
 2,162.68
 2,162.68
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Other financial assets
 -
 -
 93.39
 93.39
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Derivative Asset
-
 313.03
-
 313.03
-
 313.03
-
 313.03
 Current
 Trade receivables
 -
 -
 32,500.58
 32,500.58
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Cash and cash equivalents
 -
 -
 1,841.44
 1,841.44
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Current Investments
1,667.80
 -
 -
 1,667.80
 1,667.80
 -
 -
 1,667.80
 Other bank balances
 -
 -
 561.34
 561.34
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Loans
 -
 -
 1,216.78
 1,216.78
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Other Current Financial Assets
 -
 -
 1,351.80
 1,351.80
 -
 -
 -
 -
1,710.62
 313.03
 40,071.17
 42,094.82
 1,667.80
 313.03
 -
 1,980.83
 Financial liabilities
 Long term borrowings
 -
 -
 4,790.08
 4,790.08
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Short term borrowings
 -
 -
 1.73
 1.73
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Trade and other payables
 -
 -
 15,302.95
 15,302.95
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Other Non-Current financial 
liabilities
 -
 -
 18,328.61
 18,328.61
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Other Current financial 
liabilities
 -
 -
 7,066.29
 7,066.29
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 45,489.66
 45,489.66
 -
 -
 -
 -
  
* The fair value in respect of the unquoted equity investments is equal to the cost of the investments as 
per the contractual agreements.
B.
 
Measurement of fair values
 
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs
  
The following tables show the valuation techniques used in measuring Level 2 and Level 3 fair values, as 
well as the significant unobservable inputs used
 
Financial instruments measured at fair value
Type
Valuation technique
Fixed rates long term borrowings
The valuation model considers present value of expected payments 
discounted using an appropriate discounting rate.
Forward contracts
The fair value is determined using forward exchange rates at the 
reporting date.
Security Deposits
The valuation model considers present value of expected payments 
discounted using an appropriate discounting rate.
Interest rate swaps
Present value of the estimated future cash flows based on 
observable yield curves.
C.
 
Financial risk management
 
The Company has exposure to the following risks arising from financial instruments:



Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
152
 
i.
 
Risk management framework
   
The Company™s Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of 
the Group™s Risk Management Policy framework. The Board of Directors have adopted an Enterprise 
Risk Management Policy framed by the Group, which identifies the risk and lays down the risk 
minimisation procedures. The Movement reviews the Risk Management Policies and systems on 
a regular basis to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group™s activities, and the same 
is reported to the Board of Directors periodically. Further, the Group, in order to deal with the 
future risks, has in place various methods / processes which have been imbibed in its organisational 
structure and proper internal controls are in place to keep a check on lapses, and the same are been 
modified in accordance with the regular requirements.
   
The audit committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group™s Risk 
Management Policies and procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the Risk Management framework 
in relation to the risks faced by the Group. The audit committee is assisted in its oversight role by 
internal auditors.
 
ii.
 
Credit risk
   
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer or counterparty to a financial 
instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the group™s 
receivables from customers and loans and advances.
  
The carrying amount of following financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure:
  
Trade receivables and loans and advances.
   
The group™s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each 
customer in which it operates. Credit risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing credit 
limits and continuously monitoring the creditworthiness of customers to which the group grants 
credit terms in the normal course of business.
   
The Risk Management Committee has established a credit policy under which each new customer is 
analysed individually for creditworthiness before the group™s standard payment and delivery terms 
and conditions are offered. Further for domestic sales, the group segments the customers into 
Distributors and Others for credit monitoring.
   
The group maintains security deposits for sales made to its distributor For other trade receivables, 
the company individually monitors the sanctioned credit limits as against the outstanding balances. 
Accordingly, the group makes specific provisions against such trade receivables wherever required 
and monitors the same at periodic intervals.
   
The group monitors each loans and advances given and makes any specific provision wherever 
required.
   
The group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of expected losses 
in respect of trade receivables and loans and advances.
 
Impairment
 
At 31st March, 2021, the ageing of trade receivables was as follows
(
`
 in lakhs)
 31 March, 2021
 31 March, 2020
Neither past due nor impaired
 14,612.25
 10,313.82
 12,704.66
 15,798.79
 1,967.53
 3,983.27
 1,156.21
 1,920.03
Past due 365 days
 1,706.44
 1,658.28
 32,147.10
 33,674.19
Management believes that the unimpaired amounts which are past due are collectible in full.
Financial risk management 
(continued)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
153
 (
`
 in lakhs)
 Trade receivables 
Impairments
 Loans and 
advances
Balance as at 1 April, 2019
 866.84
 53.05
Impairment loss recognised
 745.07
 -
Balance written back
 (314.86)
 -
Amounts written off
 (123.44)
 -
Balance as at 31 March, 2020
 1,173.61
 53.05
Impairment loss recognised
 779.72
 -
Balance written back
 (510.15)
 -
Amounts written off
 (105.26)
 -
Balance as at 31st March, 2021
 1,337.92
 53.05
 
Cash and cash equivalents:
  
The Group held Cash and Cash equivalents of 
`
 9,052.94 lakhs (Previous year: 
`
 2,402.78 lakhs). The cash 
and cash equivalents are held with bank counterparties with good credit ratings.
 
Derivatives:
 
The derivatives are entered into with bank. Counterparties with good credit rating.
 
Loans and Advances:
  
The Group held loan and advances of 
`
 5,204.94 lakhs as on 31st March 2021 (Previous year: 
`
 5,480.52 
lakhs). The loans and advances are in nature of rent deposit paid to landlords, bank deposits with maturity 
more than Twelve months and others, the same are fully recoverable.
iii.
 
Liquidity risk
  
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with 
its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group™s approach 
to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its 
liabilities when they are due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable 
losses or risking damage to the Group™s reputation.
  
As of 31 March, 2021 and 31 March, 2020 the Group had unutilized credit limits from banks of 
`
 16,368.19 
lakhs, 
`
 16,099.70 lakhs respectively.
 
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
  
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The 
amounts are gross and undiscounted, and include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact 
of netting agreements.
 (
`
 in lakhs)
31st March 2021
Contractual cash flows
Carrying 
amount
Total
Less than 
6 months
6-12 
months
1-2 years
2-5 years
More than 
5 years
Non-derivative financial 
liabilities
Working Capital Borrowings
 218.26
 218.26
 218.26
 -
 -
 -
 -
Trade and other payables
 16,921.28
 16,921.28
 16,921.28
 -
 -
 -
 -
Lease Liabilities
 18,153.41
 18,153.41
 1,322.54
1,233.33
 2,374.61
 3,838.76
 9,384.17
Other financial liabilities
 4,052.41
 4,052.41
 4,052.41
 -
 -
 -
 -
Derivative financial liabilities
Cross currency interest rate swaps
 4,636.57
 4,636.57
 891.26
 891.26
 2,727.12
 126.93
 -
Forward exchange contracts used 
for hedging
- Outflow
 2,336.14
 2,336.14
 2,336.14
 -
 -
 -
 -
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
154
 (
`
 in lakhs)
31st March 2020
 Contractual cash flows
 Carrying 
amount
 Total
 Less than 
6 months
 6-12 
months
 1-2 years
 2-5 years
 More than 
5 years
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Working Capital Borrowings
 1.73
 1.73
 1.73
 -
 -
 -
 -
Trade and other payables
 14,450.41
 14,450.41
 14,450.41
 -
 -
 -
 -
Lease Liabilities
 15,647.98
 15,647.98
 1,620.41
 1,624.69
 3,257.48
 6,652.18
 2,493.22
Other financial liabilities
 5,221.77
 5,221.77
 5,221.77
 -
 -
 -
 -
Derivative financial liabilities
Cross currency interest rate swaps
 6,634.60
 6,634.59
 917.99
 917.99
 1,835.99
 2,962.62
 -
Forward exchange contracts used 
for hedging
- Outflow
 852.54
 852.54
 852.54
 -
 -
 -
 -
  
The gross inflows/(outflows) disclosed in the above table represent the contractual undiscounted cash 
flows relating to the financial liabilities which are not usually closed out before contractual maturity. The 
disclosure shows net cash flow amounts for derivatives that are net cash-settled and gross cash inflow and 
outflow amounts for derivatives that have simultaneous gross cash settlement.
iv.
 
Market risk



risk is attributable to all market risk sensitive financial instruments including foreign currency receivables 
and payables and long term debt. We are exposed to market risk primarily related to foreign exchange 
rate risk, interest rate risk and the market value of our investments. Thus, our exposure to market risk is a 
function of investing and borrowing activities and revenue generating and operating activities in foreign 
currency. The objective of market risk management is to avoid excessive exposure in our foreign currency 
revenues and costs.
 
Currency risk
  
The Group is exposed to currency risk on account of its borrowings and other payables in foreign currency. 
The functional currency of the Group is Indian Rupee (
`
). The Group uses forward exchange contracts to 
hedge its currency risk, most with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
  
The currency profile of financial assets and financial liabilities as at March 31, 2021, March 31, 2020 are as 
below:
 (
`
 in lakhs)
 31st March, 2021
 USD
 EURO
 GBP
 CNY
Financial assets:
Trade and Other Receivables
 1,641.41
 171.42
 16.54
 14.73
Less: Forward Contract
 (385.54)
 1,255.87
 171.42
 16.54
 14.73
Trade and Other Payables
 1,499.43
 219.14
 20.32
 223.05
Forecasted purchase
 660.00
 -
 -
 -
Less: Forward contracts
 (2,159.88)
 -
 -
 (176.26)
 -
 219.14
 20.32
 46.79
Net Exposure
 1,255.87
 (47.73)
 (3.79)
 (32.05)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
155
 (
`
 in lakhs)
31st March 2020
 Contractual cash flows
 Carrying 
amount
 Total
 Less than 
6 months
 6-12 
months
 1-2 years
 2-5 years
 More than 
5 years
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Working Capital Borrowings
 1.73
 1.73
 1.73
 -
 -
 -
 -
Trade and other payables
 14,450.41
 14,450.41
 14,450.41
 -
 -
 -
 -
Lease Liabilities
 15,647.98
 15,647.98
 1,620.41
 1,624.69
 3,257.48
 6,652.18
 2,493.22
Other financial liabilities
 5,221.77
 5,221.77
 5,221.77
 -
 -
 -
 -
Derivative financial liabilities
Cross currency interest rate swaps
 6,634.60
 6,634.59
 917.99
 917.99
 1,835.99
 2,962.62
 -
Forward exchange contracts used 
for hedging
- Outflow
 852.54
 852.54
 852.54
 -
 -
 -
 -
  
The gross inflows/(outflows) disclosed in the above table represent the contractual undiscounted cash 
flows relating to the financial liabilities which are not usually closed out before contractual maturity. The 
disclosure shows net cash flow amounts for derivatives that are net cash-settled and gross cash inflow and 
outflow amounts for derivatives that have simultaneous gross cash settlement.
iv.
 
Market risk



risk is attributable to all market risk sensitive financial instruments including foreign currency receivables 
and payables and long term debt. We are exposed to market risk primarily related to foreign exchange 
rate risk, interest rate risk and the market value of our investments. Thus, our exposure to market risk is a 
function of investing and borrowing activities and revenue generating and operating activities in foreign 
currency. The objective of market risk management is to avoid excessive exposure in our foreign currency 
revenues and costs.
 
Currency risk
  
The Group is exposed to currency risk on account of its borrowings and other payables in foreign currency. 
The functional currency of the Group is Indian Rupee (
`
). The Group uses forward exchange contracts to 
hedge its currency risk, most with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
  
The currency profile of financial assets and financial liabilities as at March 31, 2021, March 31, 2020 are as 
below:
 (
`
 in lakhs)
 31st March, 2021
 USD
 EURO
 GBP
 CNY
Financial assets:
Trade and Other Receivables
 1,641.41
 171.42
 16.54
 14.73
Less: Forward Contract
 (385.54)
 1,255.87
 171.42
 16.54
 14.73
Trade and Other Payables
 1,499.43
 219.14
 20.32
 223.05
Forecasted purchase
 660.00
 -
 -
 -
Less: Forward contracts
 (2,159.88)
 -
 -
 (176.26)
 -
 219.14
 20.32
 46.79
Net Exposure
 1,255.87
 (47.73)
 (3.79)
 (32.05)
 (
`
 in lakhs)
 31st March, 2020
 USD
 EURO
 GBP
 CNY
Financial assets:
Trade and Other Receivables
 1,615.85
 226.86
 3.73
 9.17
 38.85
 -
-
-
 1,654.70
 226.86
 3.73
 9.17
Financial liabilities:
Trade and Other Payables
 1,448.14
 159.62
 3.03
 150.77
Forecasted Purchase
 -
 -
 -
 -
Less: Forward contracts
 (799.20)
 -
 -
 (53.34)
 648.94
 159.62
 3.03
 97.43
Net Exposure
 1,005.76
 67.24
 0.70
 (88.26)
 
The following significant exchange rates have been applied during the year.
Indian Rupee (
`
)
Year-end spot rate
31st March, 2021
31st March, 2020
USD 1
 73.12
 75.67
EUR1
 85.71
 82.77
CNY1
 11.15
 10.65
GBP1
 100.71
 93.36
 
Sensitivity analysis
  
A reasonably possible strengthening (weakening) of the Foreign Currency against the Indian Rupee (
`
) 
at 31st March would have affected the measurement of financial instruments denominated in foreign 
currencies and affected equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that 
all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant and ignores any impact of forecast sales 
and purchases.
31st March, 2021
31st March, 2020
Profit or (loss)
Profit or (loss)
Effect in INR
Strengthening
Weakening
Strengthening
Weakening
USD - 3% Movement
 37.68
 (37.68)
 30.17
 (30.17)
EUR - 3% Movement
 (1.43)
 1.43
 2.02
 (2.02)
GBP - 3% Movement
 (0.11)
 0.11
 0.02
 (0.02)
CNY - 3% Movement
 (0.96)
 0.96
 (2.65)
 2.65
 35.17
 (35.17)
 29.56
 (29.56)
 
Interest rate risk:
  
Interest rate risk can be either fair value interest rate risk or cash flow interest rate risk. Fair value interest 
rate risk is the risk of changes in fair values of fixed interest bearing investments because of fluctuations 
in the interest rates. Cash flow interest rate risk is the risk that the future cash flows of floating interest 
bearing investments will fluctuate because of fluctuations in the interest rates.
 
Exposure to interest rate risk
  
Group™s interest rate risk arises from borrowings. The interest rate profile of the Group™s interest-bearing 
financial instruments as reported to the management of the Group is as follows:
 (
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2021
31st March, 2020
Borrowings
Fixed rate borrowings
 -
 -
Variable rate borrowings
 4,854.83
 6,636.33
Less: Interest rate swap
 (4,636.57)
 (6,634.60)
Total
 218.26
 1.73
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
156
 
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed-rate instruments
  
The Group does not account for any fixed-rate financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect profit or loss.
  
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. Under 
theses swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, the difference between fixed contract 
rates and floating rates interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional principal amounts
 
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable-rate instruments
  
A reasonably possible change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have 
increased (decreased) profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other 
variables, in particular foreign currency exchange rates, remain constant.
 (
`
 in lakhs)
Profit or (loss)
31st March, 2021
100 bp increase
100 bp decrease
Variable-rate instruments
 (48.55)
 48.55
Interest rate swaps
 46.37
 (46.37)
Cash flow sensitivity (net)
 (2.18)
 2.18
31st March, 2020
Variable-rate instruments
 (66.36)
 66.36
Interest rate swaps
 66.35
 (66.35)
Cash flow sensitivity (net)
 (0.01)
 0.01
  
The risk estimates provided assume a parallel shift of 100 basis points interest rate across all yield curves. 
This calculation also assumes that the change occurs at the balance sheet date and has been calculated 
based on risk exposures outstanding as at that date. The period end balances are not necessarily 
representative of the average debt outstanding during the period.
46
 
Capital Management
  
For the purpose of the Group™s capital management, capital includes issued capital and other equity 
reserves. The primary objective of the Group™s Capital Management is to maximise shareholders value. 
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in the light of changes in economic 
environment and the requirements of the financial covenants.
 
The Group monitors capital using debt to equity ratio.
(
`
 in lakhs)
As at 
 
31st March, 2021
As at 
 
31st March, 2020
Non-Current Borrowings
 2,854.05
 4,790.08
Current Borrowings
 218.26
 1.73
Book Overdraft
 7.60
 11.49
Current maturity of Long Term Debt
 1,782.52
 1,844.52
Gross Debt
 4,862.43
 6,647.82
Total Equity
 1,13,937.50
 1,03,209.13
Adjusted Gross debt to equity ratio
 0.04
 0.06
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
157
47
 
Employee Bene˜ts
 
The Group contributes to the following post-employment de˜ned bene˜t plans in India.
(i)
 
De˜ned Contribution Plans:
  
The contributions to the Provident Fund and Family Pension Fund of certain employees are made to a 
Government administered Provident Fund and there are no further obligations beyond making such 
contribution.
  
The Group recognised 
`
 909.10 lakhs (Previous year: 
`
 918.68 lakhs) Provident fund contributions in the 
Statement of Pro˜t and Loss.
 
The contributions payable to these plans by the Group are at rates speci˜ed in the rules of the schemes.
(ii)
 
De˜ned Bene˜t Plan:
A.
 
Gratuity
  
The Group participates in the Employees Gratuity scheme, a funded de˜ned bene˜t plan for qualifying 
employees. Gratuity is payable to all eligible employees on death or on separation / termination in terms 
of the provisions of the respective applicable Gratuity rules.
  
The most recent actuarial valuation of plan assets and the present value of the de˜ned bene˜t obligation for 
gratuity were carried out as at 31st March, 2021. The present value of the de˜ned bene˜t obligations and 
the related current service cost and past service cost, were measured using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Gratuity
 31st March, 2021
 31st March, 2020
De˜ned bene˜t obligation
 2,282.55
 2,169.17
Fair value of Plan Assets at the end of the year
 (2,391.59)
 (1,906.32)
Net Obligation at the end of the year
 (109.04)
 262.85
B. 
 
Movement in net de˜ned bene˜t (asset) liability
  
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for net 
de˜ned bene˜t (asset) liability and its components :
(
`
 in lakhs)
 Gratuity
 De˜ned bene˜t 
obligation
 Fair value of plan assets
 Net de˜ned bene˜t
(asset) liability
 31st March, 
2021
 31st March, 
2020
 31st March, 
2021
 31st March, 
2020
 31st March, 
2021
 31st March, 
2020
Opening balance
 2,169.17
 1,943.15
 1,906.32
 1,748.97
 262.85
 194.18
Addition on account of acquisition of additional 
stake of Nilkamal Storage Systems Private 
Limited
-
 102.93
-
 90.83
-
 12.10
Included in pro˜t or loss
 -
 -
 123.89
 127.16
 (123.89)
 (127.16)
Current service cost
 265.92
 232.65
 -
 -
 265.92
 232.65
Interest cost (income)
 136.81
 133.68
 -
 -
 136.81
 133.68
 2,571.89
 2,412.41
 2,030.21
 1,966.96
 541.68
 445.45
Included in OCI
Remeasurement loss (gain):
-
-
 361.38
-
 (361.38)
-
Financial assumptions
 53.60
 (18.85)
 -
 -
 53.60
 (18.85)
Experience adjustment
 (125.43)
 (64.94)
 -
 -
 (125.43)
 (64.94)
Return on plan assets excluding interest income
 -
 -
 -
 (200.64)
 -
 200.64
 2,500.06
 2,328.62
 2,391.59
 1,766.32
 108.47
 562.30
 Other
 Contributions paid by the employer
-
 -
 -
 140.00
 -
 (140.00)
 Bene˜ts paid
 (217.51)
 (159.45)
-
 -
 (217.51)
 (159.45)
 Closing balance
 2,282.55
 2,169.17
 2,391.59
 1,906.32
 (109.04)
 262.85
 Represented by
 De˜ned bene˜t asset
 (2,391.59)
 (1,906.32)
 De˜ned bene˜t liability
 2,282.55
 2,169.17
 Net de˜ned bene˜t (asset)/liabilities
 (109.04)
 262.85
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
158
C.
 Plan assets
Plan assets comprise the following:
(
` 
in lakhs)
 31 March 2021
 31 March 2020
 Fund managed by Insurance Group
 2,391.59
 1,906.32
D. 
De˜ned bene˜t obligations
i.
Actuarial assumptions
The following were the principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date (expressed as weighted 
averages).
 31 March 2021
 31 March 2020
Discount rate
 6.50% p.a.- 7% 
p.a.
 6.80% p.a.- 9.50% 
p.a.
Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets
 6.50%p.a.
 6.80%p.a.
Salary escalation rate
 6.00%p.a.- 6.80% 
p.a.
 6%p.a.- 7.50% 
p.a.
Employee Turnover
 11%p.a.- 1% p.a.
 10%p.a.- 1% p.a.
Mortality rate
 Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2012-14) Ult.
 Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2006-08) Ult.
 
Assumptions regarding future mortality have been based on published statistics and mortality tables
ii. 
 
Sensitivity analysis
  
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other 
assumptions constant, would have affected the de˜ned bene˜t obligation by the amounts shown below.
(
` 
in lakhs)
 31 March, 2021
 31 March, 2020
 Increase
 Decrease
 Increase
 Decrease
Discount rate (1% movement)
 1,884.83
 2,221.14
 1,798.94
 2,177.68
Future salary growth (1% movement)
 2,220.67
 1,835.81
 2,177.27
 1,796.17
Rate of employee turnover (1% movement)
 2,025.64
 2,004.40
 1,984.93
 1,961.44
  
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on 
de˜ned bene˜t obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the 
reporting period.
 
Expected future cash ˚ows
 
The expected future cash ˚ows in respect of gratuity as at March 31, 2021 were as follows:
 
Expected contribution
  
The expected contributions for de˜ned bene˜t plan for the next ˜nancial year will be in line with the 
contribution for the year ended 31 March, 2021 
`
 245.93 lakhs.
 
Expected future bene˜t payments
Expected future bene˜t payments
(
`
 in lakhs)
March 31, 2022
 146.03
March 31, 2023
 132.67
March 31, 2024
 104.97
March 31, 2025
 120.23
Thereafter
 1,778.65
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
159
48
 
Hedge accounting
  
The Group™s risk management policy is to hedge its estimated foreign currency exposure in respect of 
highly probable forecast purchases and foreign currency borrowings. The Holding Company uses forward 
exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk and cross currency interest rate swap to hedge its interest 
rate and currency risk related to foreign currency borrowings. Such contracts are generally designated as 
cash ˚ow hedges.
  
The Holding Company determines the existence of an economic relationship between the hedging 
instrument and hedged item based on the currency, amount and timing of their respective cash ˚ows. 
The Company assesses whether the derivative designated in each hedging relationship is expected to be 
and has been effective in offsetting changes in the cash ˚ows of the hedged item using the hypothetical 
derivative method.
 
a.
 
Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on ˜nancial position
 
i)
 
Cash ˚ow hedge - Forward exchange contracts
31st March, 2021
(
`
 in lakhs)
Type of 
hedge and 
risks
Currency
Nominal 
Value
Carrying amount of 
hedging instrument 
(in INR)
Line item in the 
statement of 
˜nancial position 
where the hedging 
instrument is 
included
Maturity 
date
Hedge 
ratio
Weighted 
Average 
strike 
price/ 
rate
Changes in 
fair value 
of the 
hedging 
instrument
Change in the 
value of hedged 
item used as 
the basis for 
recognising hedge 
effectiveness
Assets
Liabilities
Cash ˚ow 
hedge
Liabilities
May-21
Forward 
and Option 
contracts
USD
 34.48
 4.71
 -
Other current 
˜nancial liabilities
1:1
 73.35
 4.71
 (4.71)
CNY
 15.62
 -
 1.75
 11.35
 (1.75)
 1.75
Cross 
Currency 
Interest 
Rate Swap
USD
 63.42
 85.83
 -
Other current 
˜nancial liabilities 
and
Other non-current 
˜nancial liabilities
March 
2023 to 
February 
2024
1:1
 85.83
 (85.83)
Cash ˚ow hedge - Forward exchange contracts
31st March, 2020
(
`
 in lakhs)
Type of 
hedge and 
risks
Currency
Nominal 
Value
Carrying amount of 
hedging instrument 
(in INR)
Line item in the 
statement of ˜nancial 
position where the 
hedging instrument is 
included
Maturity 
date
Hedge 
ratio
Weighted 
Average 
strike 
price/ rate
Changes in 
fair value of 
the hedging 
instrument
Change in the value 
of hedged item 
used as the basis for 
recognising hedge 
effectiveness
Assets
Liabilities
Cash ˚ow 
hedge
Liabilities
Apr-20
Forward 
and Option 
contracts
USD
 10.52
 -
 0.62
Other current 
˜nancial liabilities
1:1
 74.74
 (0.62)
 0.62
CYN
 5.00
 0.04
 -
 10.67
 0.04
 (0.04)
Cross 
Currency 
Interest Rate 
Swap
USD
 87.68
 313.61
 -
Other current 
˜nancial liabilities and
Other non-current 
˜nancial liabilities
March 
2023 to 
February 
2024
1:1
 313.61
 (313.61)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
160
b.
Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on ˜nancial performance
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 
2021
Change in 
the value of 
the hedging 
instrument 
recognised in 
OCI
Hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised in 
pro˜t or loss
Amount 
reclassi˜ed 
from cash 
˚ow hedging 
reserve to 
pro˜t or loss
Line item affected in 
statement of pro˜t 
or loss because of the 
reclassi˜cation
Cash ˚ow hedge
 61.45
 -
 152.76
Foreign exchange loss
31st March, 2020
Change in 
the value of 
the hedging 
instrument 
recognised in OCI
Hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised in 
pro˜t or loss
Amount 
reclassi˜ed 
from cash 
˚ow hedging 
reserve to 
pro˜t or loss
Line item affected in 
statement of pro˜t 
or loss because of the 
reclassi˜cation
Cash ˚ow hedge
 (60.61)
 -
 92.15
 Foreign exchange loss
 
c.
  
The following table provides a reconciliation by risk category of components of equity and 
analysis of OCI items, net of tax, resulting from cash ˚ow hedge accounting Movements 
in cash ˚ow hedging reserve
(
`
 in lakhs)
Balance at 1 April 2019
 (92.15)
Add : Changes in the fair value of effective portion of outstanding cash ˚ow 
derivative (net of settlement)
 (62.51)
Less : Amounts reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss
 -
Less: Deferred tax
 1.90
As at March 31, 2020
 (152.76)
Add : Changes in the fair value of effective portion of outstanding cash ˚ow 
derivative (net of settlement)
 82.11
Less : Amounts reclassi˜ed to pro˜t or loss
 -
Less: Deferred tax
 (20.66)
As at March 31, 2021
 (91.31)
49 
 
Earnings per share (EPS)
  
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the pro˜t for the year attributable to equity holders of the 
Holding Company by the weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year.
  
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the pro˜t attributable to equity holders of the Company by the 
weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of 
Equity shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential Equity shares into Equity shares.
i. 
Pro˜t attributable to Equity holders of Company
(
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2021
31st March, 2020
Pro˜t attributable to equity holders of the Company:
Continuing operations
 11,293.31
 14,208.45
Pro˜t attributable to equity holders of the Company for basic 
earnings
 11,293.31
 14,208.45
Pro˜t attributable to equity holders of the Company adjusted 
for the effect of dilution
 11,293.31
 14,208.45
ii. 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
(
`
 in lakhs)
 31st March, 2021
 31st March, 2020
Issued ordinary shares at April 1
 1,49,22,525
 1,49,22,525
Weighted average number of shares at 31st March for 
basic and Diluted EPS
 1,49,22,525
 1,49,22,525
Basic and Diluted earnings per share in 
`
(Amount in 
`
)
 31st March 2021
 31st March 2020
Basic earnings per share
 75.68
 95.21
Diluted earnings per share
 75.68
 95.21
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
161
50
SEGMENT INFORMATION
Segment Wise Revenue, Results and Other Information
A
Business Segment:
The Group has organized businesses into 2 categories viz Plastics and Lifestyle Furniture, Furnishings and Accessories. 
Accordingly the Group has reported its segmental results for these categories.
 (
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
 2020-21
 2019-20
 Plastics
 Lifestyle 
Furniture, 
Furnishings 
& 
Accessories
 Total
 Plastics
 Lifestyle 
Furniture, 
Furnishings 
& 
Accessories
 Total
1
Revenue from Operations
1,94,155.88
 15,688.89
2,09,844.77
 2,04,620.89
 21,511.31
2,26,132.20
Less: Inter Segment Revenue
 624.61
 624.61
 413.02
 413.02
Net Revenue from Operations
1,93,531.27
 15,688.89
2,09,220.16
 2,04,207.87
 21,511.31
2,25,719.18
2
Segment Result before Tax & 
interest
 17,573.93
 (407.17)
 17,166.76
 20,812.77
 (152.36)
 20,660.41
Less: Unallocated expense(Net of 
Unallocated Income)
 (33.26)
 520.40
Operating Pro˜t
 17,200.02
 20,140.01
Less: Finance Costs
 2,353.38
 2,610.47
Add/(Less): Exceptional
Income / (Expenses)
 -
 -
Add/(Less): Prior Period 
Adjustment
 -
 -
Pro˜t Before Tax
 14,846.64
 17,529.54
Less: Provision for Taxes(Net)
 3,697.56
 3,914.86
Net Pro˜t after Tax before share 
of pro˜t of Joint ventures
 11,149.08
 13,614.68
Share of net pro˜t / (loss) from 
Joint venture accounted for using 
equity method
 165.69
 628.07
Pro˜t for the Year
 11,314.77
 14,242.75
Less; Non Controlling Interests
 21.46
 34.30
Pro˜t for the Year
 11,293.31
 14,208.45
3
Other Information
Segment Assets
1,43,964.52
 14,849.28
1,58,813.80
 1,31,689.55
 16,240.96
1,47,930.51
Add: Unallocated Assets
 13,566.27
 7,162.46
Total Assets
1,72,380.07
1,55,092.97
Segment Liabilities
 40,260.86
 11,699.84
 51,960.70
 33,002.73
 10,523.01
 43,525.74
Add: Minority Interest
 104.43
 -
 104.43
 90.47
 -
 90.47
 40,365.29
 11,699.84
 52,065.13
 33,093.20
 10,523.01
 43,616.21
Add: Unallocated Liabilities
 6,377.44
 8,267.62
Total liabilities
 58,442.57
 51,883.83
Capital Expenditure
 7,765.93
 4.04
 7,769.97
 9,922.07
 41.12
 9,963.19
Depreciation and Amortisation
 8,151.14
 1,565.33
 9,716.47
 7,714.02
 1,707.25
 9,421.27
Signi˜cant Non Cash Expenses 
other than Depreciation and 
Amortisation
 1,040.09
 553.85
 1,593.94
 1,144.07
 628.91
 1,772.98
The segment Revenues, Results, Assets and Liabilities include the respective amounts identi˜able to each of 
the segment and amounts allocated on a reasonable basis.
The accounting policies adopted for segment reporting are in conformity with the accounting policies adopted for the 
Holding Company.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
162
B
Geographical Segment:
Although the Group™s operations are managed by product area, we provide additional information based on 
geographies.
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
 Year Ended 31st March, 2021
 Year Ended 31st March, 2020
 India
 Rest 
of The 
World
 Total
 India
 Rest 
of The 
World
 Total
1
Segment Revenue (Net Sales)
1,99,071.18
10,148.98
2,09,220.16
2,14,841.04
10,878.14
2,25,719.18
2
Carrying cost of Segment Assets
1,55,471.31
 3,342.49
1,58,813.80
1,43,421.72
 4,508.79
1,47,930.51
Revenue from Major Customers
The Group is not reliant on revenues from transactions with any single external customer and does not receive 10% 
or more of its revenues from transactions with any single external customer.
51
Investment in Joint Ventures
Name of the Joint Venture
Country of 
Incorporation
Percentage 
of Ownership 
Interest
 Cambro Nilkamal Private Limited
India
50
The Holding Company has no material Joint Ventures as at 31st March, 2021. The aggregate summarized 
˜nancial information in respect of the Holding Company™s immaterial Joint Ventures that is accounted for 
using the equity method is set forth below.
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
31st March, 2021
31st March, 2020
Carrying amount of the Company™s interest in Joint Ventures
 1,871.43
 1,715.37
Company™s share of pro˜t/(loss) in Joint Ventures
 165.69
 628.07
Company™s share of other comprehensive income in Joint Ventures
 0.87
 (5.13)
Company™s share of total comprehensive income in Joint Ventures
 166.56
 622.94
52.
Additional Information to be given as required under Schedule III of to the 2013, of enterprises consolidated as Subsidiary and Joint Venture
 ( 
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2021
31st March, 2020
Sr.
No.
Name of the Entity
Net Assets i.e Total Assets 
Minus Total Liabilities
Share in Pro˜t
Other Comprehensive 
Income
Total Comprehensive 
Income
Net Assets i.e Total Assets 
Minus Total Liabilities
Share in Pro˜t
Other Comprehensive 
Income
Total Comprehensive 
Income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
pro˜t or 
loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
Total 
Comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
pro˜t or 
loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
Total 
Comprehensive 
income
Amount
Parent
Nilkamal Limited
90.71%
1,03,449.50
89.94%
10,176.37
212.84%
 385.62
91.88%
10,561.99
90.65%
 93,643.32
81.26%
11,573.11
133.24%
 (155.94)
80.83%
11,417.17
Foreign Subsidiaries
1
Nilkamal Eswaran Plastics 
Private Limited
2.16%
 2,459.96
3.91%
 442.64
(102.96%)
 (186.55)
2.23%
 256.09
2.14%
 2,208.26
1.02%
 145.73
(9.24%)
 10.81
1.11%
 156.54
2
Nilkamal Eswaran Marketing 
Private Limited
0.10%
 111.38
0.03%
 3.04
(2.08%)
 (3.77)
(0.01%)
 (0.73)
0.11%
 112.11
0.22%
 30.78
0.49%
 (0.57)
0.21%
 30.21
3
Nilkamal Crates and Bins FZE
0.83%
 950.19
0.49%
 54.95
(5.23%)
 (9.48)
0.40%
 45.47
0.88%
 905.84
1.32%
 187.81
(28.87%)
 33.79
1.57%
 221.60
Indian Subsidiaries
Nilkamal Foundation
0.46%
 519.41
2.11%
 238.31
-
-
2.07%
 238.31
0.27%
 281.10
0.03%
 3.69
-
-
0.03%
 3.69
Nilkamal Storage Systems 
Private Limited (with effect 
from 23rd August 2019)
8.50%
 9,690.51
0.31%
 35.00
-
-
0.30%
 35.00
9.33%
 9,636.18
5.60%
 797.70
2.92%
 (3.42)
5.62%
 794.28
Minority Interest
1
Nilkamal Eswaran Plastics 
Private Limited
0.06%
 65.86
0.17%
 18.93
-
-
0.16%
 18.93
0.05%
 54.28
0.19%
 26.61
-
-
0.19%
 26.61
2
Nilkamal Eswaran Marketing 
Private Limited
0.03%
 33.33
0.00%
 0.12
-
-
0.00%
 0.12
0.03%
 33.35
0.05%
 7.65
-
-
0.05%
 7.65
3
Nilkamal Foundation
0.00%
 5.25
0.02%
 2.41
-
-
0.02%
 2.41
0.00%
 2.84
0.00%
 0.04
-
-
0.00%
 0.04
Joint Venture
Nilkamal Bito Storage Systems 
Private Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
0.00%
 -
1.57%
 223.73
-
 -
1.58%
 223.73
Cambro Nilkamal Private 
Limited
1.64%
 1,871.43
1.46%
 165.69
0.48%
 0.87
1.45%
 166.56
1.66%
 1,715.37
2.84%
 404.34
2.46%
 (2.88)
2.84%
 401.46
Eliminations
(4.49%)
 (5,114.89)
1.57%
 177.31
(3.04%)
 (5.51)
1.49%
 171.80
(5.12%)
 (5,293.05)
5.91%
 841.56
(1.00%)
 1.17
5.97%
 842.73
100.00%
1,14,041.93
100.00%
11,314.77
100.00%
 181.18
100.00%
11,495.95
100.00%
1,03,299.60
100.00%
14,242.75
100.00%
 (117.04)
100.00%
14,125.71
The above ˜gures are after eliminating intra group transactions and intra group balances as at 31st March, 2021 and 31st March,
 2020 respectively.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
163
B
Geographical Segment:
Although the Group™s operations are managed by product area, we provide additional information based on 
geographies.
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
 Year Ended 31st March, 2021
 Year Ended 31st March, 2020
 India
 Rest 
of The 
World
 Total
 India
 Rest 
of The 
World
 Total
1
Segment Revenue (Net Sales)
1,99,071.18
10,148.98
2,09,220.16
2,14,841.04
10,878.14
2,25,719.18
2
Carrying cost of Segment Assets
1,55,471.31
 3,342.49
1,58,813.80
1,43,421.72
 4,508.79
1,47,930.51
Revenue from Major Customers
The Group is not reliant on revenues from transactions with any single external customer and does not receive 10% 
or more of its revenues from transactions with any single external customer.
51
Investment in Joint Ventures
Name of the Joint Venture
Country of 
Incorporation
Percentage 
of Ownership 
Interest
 Cambro Nilkamal Private Limited
India
50
The Holding Company has no material Joint Ventures as at 31st March, 2021. The aggregate summarized 
˜nancial information in respect of the Holding Company™s immaterial Joint Ventures that is accounted for 
using the equity method is set forth below.
(
`
 in lakhs)
Particulars
31st March, 2021
31st March, 2020
Carrying amount of the Company™s interest in Joint Ventures
 1,871.43
 1,715.37
Company™s share of pro˜t/(loss) in Joint Ventures
 165.69
 628.07
Company™s share of other comprehensive income in Joint Ventures
 0.87
 (5.13)
Company™s share of total comprehensive income in Joint Ventures
 166.56
 622.94
52.
Additional Information to be given as required under Schedule III of to the 2013, of enterprises consolidated as Subsidiary and Joint Venture
 ( 
`
 in lakhs)
31st March, 2021
31st March, 2020
Sr.
No.
Name of the Entity
Net Assets i.e Total Assets 
Minus Total Liabilities
Share in Pro˜t
Other Comprehensive 
Income
Total Comprehensive 
Income
Net Assets i.e Total Assets 
Minus Total Liabilities
Share in Pro˜t
Other Comprehensive 
Income
Total Comprehensive 
Income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
pro˜t or 
loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
Total 
Comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
pro˜t or 
loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
Total 
Comprehensive 
income
Amount
Parent
Nilkamal Limited
90.71%
1,03,449.50
89.94%
10,176.37
212.84%
 385.62
91.88%
10,561.99
90.65%
 93,643.32
81.26%
11,573.11
133.24%
 (155.94)
80.83%
11,417.17
Foreign Subsidiaries
1
Nilkamal Eswaran Plastics 
Private Limited
2.16%
 2,459.96
3.91%
 442.64
(102.96%)
 (186.55)
2.23%
 256.09
2.14%
 2,208.26
1.02%
 145.73
(9.24%)
 10.81
1.11%
 156.54
2
Nilkamal Eswaran Marketing 
Private Limited
0.10%
 111.38
0.03%
 3.04
(2.08%)
 (3.77)
(0.01%)
 (0.73)
0.11%
 112.11
0.22%
 30.78
0.49%
 (0.57)
0.21%
 30.21
3
Nilkamal Crates and Bins FZE
0.83%
 950.19
0.49%
 54.95
(5.23%)
 (9.48)
0.40%
 45.47
0.88%
 905.84
1.32%
 187.81
(28.87%)
 33.79
1.57%
 221.60
Indian Subsidiaries
Nilkamal Foundation
0.46%
 519.41
2.11%
 238.31
-
-
2.07%
 238.31
0.27%
 281.10
0.03%
 3.69
-
-
0.03%
 3.69
Nilkamal Storage Systems 
Private Limited (with effect 
from 23rd August 2019)
8.50%
 9,690.51
0.31%
 35.00
-
-
0.30%
 35.00
9.33%
 9,636.18
5.60%
 797.70
2.92%
 (3.42)
5.62%
 794.28
Minority Interest
1
Nilkamal Eswaran Plastics 
Private Limited
0.06%
 65.86
0.17%
 18.93
-
-
0.16%
 18.93
0.05%
 54.28
0.19%
 26.61
-
-
0.19%
 26.61
2
Nilkamal Eswaran Marketing 
Private Limited
0.03%
 33.33
0.00%
 0.12
-
-
0.00%
 0.12
0.03%
 33.35
0.05%
 7.65
-
-
0.05%
 7.65
3
Nilkamal Foundation
0.00%
 5.25
0.02%
 2.41
-
-
0.02%
 2.41
0.00%
 2.84
0.00%
 0.04
-
-
0.00%
 0.04
Joint Venture
Nilkamal Bito Storage Systems 
Private Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
0.00%
 -
1.57%
 223.73
-
 -
1.58%
 223.73
Cambro Nilkamal Private 
Limited
1.64%
 1,871.43
1.46%
 165.69
0.48%
 0.87
1.45%
 166.56
1.66%
 1,715.37
2.84%
 404.34
2.46%
 (2.88)
2.84%
 401.46
Eliminations
(4.49%)
 (5,114.89)
1.57%
 177.31
(3.04%)
 (5.51)
1.49%
 171.80
(5.12%)
 (5,293.05)
5.91%
 841.56
(1.00%)
 1.17
5.97%
 842.73
100.00%
1,14,041.93
100.00%
11,314.77
100.00%
 181.18
100.00%
11,495.95
100.00%
1,03,299.60
100.00%
14,242.75
100.00%
 (117.04)
100.00%
14,125.71
The above ˜gures are after eliminating intra group transactions and intra group balances as at 31st March, 2021 and 31st March,
 2020 respectively.
53.
 
Previous year ˜gures have been re-group / reclassi˜ed wherever necessary.
As per our report of even date attached.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm™s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Nilkamal Limited
CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Rishabh Kumar
Partner
Membership No : 402877
Hiten V. Parekh
Managing Director
DIN : 00037550
Manish V. Parekh
Joint Managing Director
DIN : 00037724
Paresh B. Mehta
Chief Financial Of˜cer
 
Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave
Company Secretary
Membership No : 19469
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
164
Salient features of the ˜nancial statements of Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures
[Pursuant to the ˜rst proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 129 read with rules 5 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 
2014 - AOC -1]
Part "A" : Subsidiaries
 (
`
 in lakhs)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Subsidiaries
 Nilkamal 
Eswaran 
Plastics 
Private 
Limited, Sri 
Lanka
 Nilkamal 
Eswaran 
Marketing 
Private 
Limited, Sri 
Lanka
 Nilkamal 
Crates and 
Bins - FZE 
(Ajman - 
UAE)
 Nilkamal 
Foundation
 Nilkamal 
Storage 
System 
Private 
Limited *
1
Reporting period for the subsidiary concerned, if different 
from the holding company™s reporting period
 1st April 
2020 to 
 
31st March 
2021
 1st April 
2020 to 
31st March 
2021
 1st April 
2020 to 
31st March 
2021
 1st April 
2020 to 
31st March 
2021
23rd 
August 
2020 to 
31.03.2021
2
Reporting currency and Exchange rate as on the last 
date of the relevant ˜nancial year in the case of foreign 
subsidiaries.
 1 SLR= 
 
`
 0.35732
 1 SLR= 
 
`
 0.35732
 1 AED= 
`
19.83584
 INR
 INR
3
Share Capital
 54.31
 0.00
 36.70
 0.01
 444.00
4
Reserve and Surplus
 2,405.65
 111.38
 913.50
 519.40
 9,246.51
5
Total Assets
 3,778.11
 150.19
 1,410.74
 625.40
 13,505.05
6
Total Liabilities (Excluding Minority interest)
 1,122.98
 5.48
 460.55
 100.74
 3,814.54
7
Investment other than investment in Subsidiary
 0.00
 -
 -
 -
 -
8
Turnover, Income and Other Income
 3,770.21
 162.32
 1,908.53
 374.32
 19,170.97
9
Pro˜t Before Taxation
 450.99
 9.33
 54.95
 240.72
 169.59
10
Provision for Taxation (incl Deferred Tax)
 (13.00)
 7.66
 -
 -
 134.59
11
Pro˜t after Tax
 463.98
 1.67
 54.95
 240.72
 35.00
12
Dividend
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
13
% of shareholding (** change in previous year the year)
  96.28%
  96.28%
100.00%
  99.00%
100.00%
Part "B" : Joint Ventures
 (
`
 in lakhs)
Sr. 
No.
Name of Joint Ventures
Cambro Nilkamal Private 
Limited, India
1
Latest audited Balance Sheet Date
31st March 2021
2
Shares of Associate/Joint Ventures held by the company on the year end
50.00%
3
No. of Share fully paid up of 
`
 10 each
 2,10,000
4
Amount of Investment in Associates/Joint Venture
 200.50
5
Extend of Holding %
50.00%
6
Description of how there is signi˜cant in˚uence
Joint Venture
7
Reason why the Joint Venture is not consolidated
 Consolidated
8
Net worth attributable to Shareholding as per latest audited Balance Sheet (
` 
in lakhs)
 1,871.43
9
Pro˜t for the year
a Consider in Consolidation
 165.69
b Not consider in Consolidation
 Nil
For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Nilkamal Limited
CIN :  L25209DN1985PLC000162
Hiten V. Parekh
Managing Director
DIN : 00037550
Manish V. Parekh
Joint Managing Director
DIN : 00037724
Paresh B. Mehta
Chief Financial Of˜cer
 
Membership No : 044670
Priti P. Dave
Company Secretary
Membership No : 19469
Mumbai
June 03, 2021
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
165
Performance at a glance
 ( `.
 In lakh
s)
Particulars
 2016-17
 2017-18
 2018-19
 2019-20
 2020-21
Net Sales
 1,95,665
 2,10,796
 2,30,418
 2,08,147
 1,88,803
Pro˜t Before Tax
 16,892
 17,876
 15,868
 15,820
 13,903
Pro˜t After Tax
 11,845
 11,711
 11,123
 12,201
 10,342
Share Capital
 1,492
 1,492
 1,492
 1,492
 1,492
Reserves and Surplus
 68,221
 78,225
 86,946
 93,866
 1,03,829
Shareholder's Funds
 69,713
 79,718
 88,438
 95,359
 1,05,321
Loan Funds
 8,281
 9,291
 5,872
 6,635
 4,637
Total Capital Employed
 77,994
 89,008
 94,311
 1,01,993
 1,09,958
Long Term Liabilities and Provisions
 5,472
 5,874
 6,242
 18,704
 22,172
Deffered Tax Liability
 522
 1,072
 1,780
 872
 850
Gross Block
 78,980
 87,382
 97,316
 1,22,651
 1,34,387
Net Block
 28,841
 33,547
 39,703
 56,995
 60,937
Investments
 2,568
 2,568
 2,572
 7,688
 7,688
Long Term Loans and Advances and other 
Current non current Assets
 5,001
 4,723
 5,153
 5,396
 4,885
Net Current Assets
 47,578
 55,117
 54,905
 51,490
 59,470
RATIO
Financial Performance %
2016-17
2017-18
2018-19
2019-20
2020-21
Domestic Turnover/Total Revenue
 94.98
 96.35
 97.05
 96.98
 96.88
Exports/Total Revenue
 4.41
 3.28
 2.22
 2.50
 2.36
Other Income/Total Revenue
 0.61
 0.37
 0.74
 0.52
 0.76
Raw Material/Total Revenue
 57.45
 55.05
 58.50
 54.60
 55.36
Overheads/Total Revenue
 23.50
 25.85
 24.18
 23.90
 23.13
Interest/Total Revenue
 0.59
 0.59
 0.68
 1.23
 1.22
Pro˜t Before Tax/Total Revenue
 8.58
 8.45
 6.84
 7.56
 7.31
Depreciation//Total Revenue
 2.48
 2.29
 2.14
 4.33
 4.87
Net Pro˜t After Tax /Total Revenue
 6.02
 5.54
 4.79
 5.83
 5.44
Return on Capital Employed
 17.07
 14.91
 13.23
 13.02
 10.16
Return on Net Worth
 18.47
 15.67
 13.23
 13.28
 10.31
Balance Sheet Ratios
Debtors Turnover (days)
 47
 48
 40
 40
 42
Inventory Turnover
 61
 64
 60
 65
 88
Current Ratio
 3.47
 3.51
 3.79
 3.31
 3.21
Asset Turnover
 6.78
 6.28
 5.80
 3.65
 3.10
Debt-Equity
 0.12
 0.12
 0.07
 0.07
 0.04
Per Share Data - Rs.
EPS
 79.38
 78.48
 74.54
 81.76
 69.31
CEPS
 112.09
 110.96
 107.80
 142.42
 131.40
Book Value
 467.17
 534.21
 592.65
 639.03
 705.79
Shareholder Statitics
DPS
 11
 13
 13
 15
 15
Dividend (%)
 110
 130
 130
 150
 150
Dividend Payout (Rs)
 1,812
 2,247
 2,279
 4,245
 2,238
Dividend Payout (%)
 15
 19
 20
 35
 22
Performance at a glance
166
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
167
NOTES
168
NOTES
In the ongoing ˚ght against the pandemic, Nilkamal is 
also doing its bit in the world's biggest vaccination 

drive in India.
Nilkamal, being one of the global leaders in the molded        
category, decided to contribute important resources 

such as Vaccine Cold Boxes and Carriers.
Tested at WHO-approved laboratories, these Vaccine 
Cold Boxes and Carriers are a perfect ˚t for
                
vaccinating more than a billion citizens of India.
Stren
g
thening 
the 
f
 
i
g
ht against 
Covid-19
Due to water scarcity, women in rural India 
spend a lot of time and e˜ort in fetching clean 

water, leading to various health complications. 
To help these women, Nilkamal came up with a 
simple innovation called Wello Water Wheel 

which helps them fetch water easily without 

having to carry it on their heads.
 
Thus, saving 
them from possible health hazards. Even young 

girls who had to help their mothers fetch water 

can now go back to school and continue their 

education. Also, men no longer feel shy about 

fetching water.
This water wheel is contributing towards a 
better 
quality of life for these women and their families.
The
water wheel

that's

driving the

change
ANNUAL 
REPORT
 
2
0
-2
1
  ...........
"The greatest danger
in times of turbulence
is not the turbulence
Œ it is to act with
yesterday™s logic."
Œ Peter Drucker
Ahmedabad | 
Bangalore 
(Koramangala | KR Puram | Munekolalu | Rajajinagar)
 | 
Chandigarh | Chennai 
(Aminjikarai 
| Guindy)
 | Coimbatore | 
Delhi
 | 
Ghaziabad | 
Hassan |
 Hyderabad 
(Madhapur Village) 
|
 Indore | 
Lucknow | 
Mangalore    
| Mysore | 
Madurai | 
Pune 
(Hadapsar | Shivajinagar | Yerwada)
 | 
Rajkot | Surat | 
Salem | 
Thrissur
 |
 Vadodara
Aurangabad | 
Asansol
 | Belgavi | Bengaluru | Bhopal | Chhindwara | Davanagere | Dehradun | Deoghar | 
Delhi
 |  
Dhanbad
 | Dibrugarh | Faridabad | Ghaziabad | Greater Noida | Gurugram | 
Guwahati
 | Haldwani | Hassan | 
Hajipur
 

| 
Hazaribagh
 | Hubli | 
Hosur
 | 
Hyderabad
 | Jabalpur | Jaipur | Jammu | Jhansi | Kashipur | Korba | 
Kolkata
 | Lalitpur 
| Malda | Mandya | 
Mysore
 | Nashik | 
Nagaon
 | Patna | Puducherry | Pune | Purnea | Raebareli | Ranchi | 
Rajkot
 | 

Rudrapur | Sagar | Sarjapur | 
Shimoga
 | Tumkur | 
Tirupati
 | 
Trichy
 | 
Thane (MH)
 | Vellore | 
Vijayawada
Due to water scarcity, women in rural India 
spend a lot of time and e˜ort in fetching clean 

water, leading to various health complications. 
To help these women, Nilkamal came up with a 
simple innovation called Wello Water Wheel 

which helps them fetch water easily without 

having to carry it on their heads.
 
Thus, saving 
them from possible health hazards. Even young 

girls who had to help their mothers fetch water 

can now go back to school and continue their 

education. Also, men no longer feel shy about 

fetching water.
This water wheel is contributing towards a 
better 
quality of life for these women and their families.
The
water wheel

that's

driving the

change
